
WEST GIPPSLAND REGIONAL
 LIBRARY CORPORATION 
AGREEMENT

THIS AGREEMENT is made on _______________________________  2005.



BETWEEN:		Bass Coast Shire Council, established as a body corporate
		Under an Order in Council made pursuant to the Local
		Government Act 1989, of Baillieu, Wonthaggi, 
		Baw Baw Shire Council, established as a body corporate under
		an Order in Council made pursuant to the Local Government
		Act 1989, Civic Place, Warragul and
		South Gippsland Shire Council, established as a body corporate
		Under an Order in Council made pursuant to the Local Government Act 
		1989, of Smith Street, Leongatha.

				RECITALS:

A.	The Councils desire to revise an Agreement dated 11th December 1995, which formed a regional library to service the area comprising their municipal districts pursuant to section 196 of the Local Government Act 1989.

B.	The Councils have agreed on the assets they will provide for the use of, or, transfer to the   
	ownership of, the Regional Library.

C.	The Councils have agreed to contribute certain sums of money annually for the purposes of
	the Regional Library.


AGREEMENT
       1.	DEFINITIONS
		
		In the interpretation of this Agreement, including the Recitals, except where the context
		otherwise requires-

		(a)	the following words shall have the following meaning-

			"Act" means the Local Government Act 1989;
	
			"Chief Executive Officer" means the person appointed in accordance with the 
			 Act;

			"Board" means the governing body of the Regional Library established under
			 clause 3.1;

			"Council" means a party to this Agreement;

			"Local Law" means a Local Law made in accordance with Part 5 of the Act;

			"Minister" means the Victorian Government Minister responsible for 
        administering the Local Government Act 1989;
       
       
       "Regional Library" means the regional library corporation established under
        this Agreement;
       
       
       
2. CREATION OF THE REGIONAL LIBRARY

There shall be constituted a regional library corporation for the purposes of section
196 of the Act by the name of West Gippsland Regional Library Corporation to -

(a) provide, subject to any service level agreements or any conditions attached to any State government library subsidies and grants to the Regional Library or the Councils, a quality, customer-focused regional library service for Council's municipal districts as determined by the Board;

(b) make Local Laws relating to the Regional Library;

(c) perform other functions which are conferred on the Regional Library under this
Agreement or Act, including defining overall policy objectives, developing strategic policy and a financial strategy, approving a Library Plan, developing an annual Budget; and preparing an Annual report, and 

(d) to do all things necessary or expedient in accordance with this Agreement and 
the Act for the carrying out of its functions.

3. MEMBERSHIP OF THE BOARD

3.1 The Board of the Regional Library shall consist of the following members-

(a) One councillor appointed by each Council

(b) One member of Council staff appointed by each Council;

3.2 A Council may appoint a councillor to act as deputy in place of its appointed councilor member.

3.3 A Council may appoint a member of council staff to act as deputy in place of its appointed staff member.

3.4 A member and deputy shall hold office until the term of his/her appointment
expires, until removed or the person resigns or ceases to be a councillor or member of council staff, whichever occurs first.

3.5 A Council may remove from office its appointed member or deputy.

3.6 A Council must fill a vacancy in its members as soon as possible and notify the 
board in writing of the new member.

3.7 The office of a member automatically becomes vacant if he/she is absent for
three consecutive meetings without leave of the Board.

4. PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD

4.1 The Board shall hold an ordinary meeting at least once every three months.

4.2 If a special meeting is called, it must be called by the Chief Executive Officer on
the request of the Chairperson or any three members of the Board.

4.3 The Board shall elect a member to be the Chairperson of the Board and they shall hold office for twelve months, unless they go out of office earlier in accordance with clause 3.4 of this Agreement.

4.4 The Chairperson shall preside at a meeting of the Board.

4.5 In the absence of the Chairperson from a Board meeting, the remaining members of the Board may elect one of their number to preside at that meeting.

4.6 Notice of motion to recommend amendment of this Agreement and notice of 
motion for the adoption or amendment of Local Laws by the Board shall be given in writing to Councils at least one month before the meeting of the Board at which a motion is to be discussed.

4.7 Each Council agrees to indemnify the Regional Library in respect of any liability
incurred as a consequence of the operation of section 76 of the Act in relation to each of its appointed members.

5. CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER

5.1 The Board shall appoint a Chief Executive Officer of the Regional Library.

5.2 In addition to any responsibilities imposed on a Chief Executive Officer under
the Act, the Chief Executive Officer shall be responsible to the Board for the finances and administration of the Regional Library including the implementation of the Library Plan, the Financial strategy, preparation of the Annual Budget and Annual Report, delivery of the service and administrative support for the Board and any other duties specified.

6.	EQUITY AND OPERATING COSTS

6.1 Each Council agrees to the Regional Library using the assets set out in the 
Statement of Council Assets in Schedule 1.

6.2 The Chief Executive Officer shall maintain a register of the assets provided
for the use of the Regional Library by Councils. This register must indicate which Council owns each asset.

6.3 The Chief Executive Officer shall maintain a register of the assets owned by the
Regional Library.

6.4 A Council must, unless otherwise agreed by Councils, give twelve months 
notice in writing to the Chief Executive Officer of its intention to withdraw assets from the use of the Regional Library.

6.5 The Regional Library shall, unless otherwise agreed by Councils, be 
responsible for the maintenance, repair, replacement and operating costs of assets owned by the Regional Library.

6.6 Each Council shall, unless otherwise agreed by Councils, be responsible for
the maintenance, repair, replacement and operating costs of assets owned by it but provided for the use of the Regional Library.
6.7 The Regional Library shall, unless otherwise agreed by Councils and subject to
Clauses 6.5 and 6.6, be responsible for its own operating costs.

7.	STRATEGIC PLANNING

7.1 The Chief Executive Officer shall by 30 June each year provide each Council 
with a copy of the Regional Library's Library Plan prepared in accordance with section 197D of the Act.

7.2 The Chief Executive Officer shall by 30 June each year prepare and provide
each Council with a proposed Strategic Resource Plan for the financial year commencing 1 July.

7.3 The Strategic Resource Plan shall include a program for the delivery of services
by the Regional Library which identifies the nature and extent of proposed services and an estimate of the costs of the provision of those services.

7.4 The Regional Library must adopt a Library Plan and a Strategic Resource Plan
by the date specified in the Act. 

8.	ANNUAL BUDGET

8.1 The Chief Executive Officer shall by June 1 each year provide each Council
with a copy of the Regional Library's proposed annual Budget prepared in accordance with section 127 of the Act.

8.2 The proposed annual Budget shall include -

(a) the amount of funds currently held by the Regional Library

(b) the amount of each Council's proposed financial contribution to the 
Regional Library for the financial year commencing 1 July; and

(c) the amount of funds to be received from any other source by the 
Regional Library in the financial year commencing 1 July.

9.	ANNUAL FINANCIAL CONTRIBUTIONS

9.1 The amount to be contributed to the Regional Library by each Council during
each financial year shall be the sum of -

(a) the amount specified in the Regional Library's adopted annual Budget;

(b) all State Government library subsidies and grants received by the 
Council for library services; and

(c) funds received by the Council from any other source for library services.

9.2 The Council must agree on a funding formula for the purpose of making annual 
financial contributions to the Regional Library under Clause 9.1 (a).

9.3 Each Council's financial contribution to the Regional Library shall be paid in 
quarterly installments on the first day of July, October, January and April each year.

9.4 The first installment shall be the same amount paid by the Council in the 
previous quarter and the second installment shall include any adjustment to ensure the two installments together equal half the amount paid by that Council for that financial year.

9.5 Al other Council contributions under clause 9.1 shall be paid within one month
of receipt of the monies by the Council.

9.6 In addition to the contributions payable under this clause, a Council shall be 
responsible for the Regional Library's costs in providing any additional service
or resources requested by the Council and such costs are to be paid within 30 days of the Council receiving an invoice from the Regional Library.

9.7 Interest shall be paid on any amount payable under clause 9 which is not received by the Chief Executive Officer within 14 days of the due date at the rate fixed by the Governor in Council for the purposes of section 172 of the Act and calculated monthly from the date the amount became due until it is received by the Chief Executive Officer.

       10.	ANNUAL REPORTING AND ACCOUNTS

10.1	The Chief Executive Officer shall, within three months of the end of each 
financial year, provide each Council with a copy of the Regional Library's Annual report prepared in accordance with section 131 of the Act.

10.2	The books of accounts and all other financial records of the Regional Library 
shall be available for inspection at all reasonable times by any councillor, or, person authorised by a Council, or, by any person authorised by the Secretary of the Department responsible for administering State Government library subsidies and grants from which the Regional Library or Councils receive funds.

11.	ENTRY AND EXIT OF PARTIES

11.1	A council which is not a party to this Agreement may, by supplementary 
agreement with the Councils, be admitted as a party to this Agreement and subject to the provisions of the supplementary agreement, shall have the same rights, duties and obligations of the Councils under this Agreement.

11.2	A Council may withdraw from this Agreement having given not less than 
twelve months notice in writing to the Chief Executive Officer of its intention to do so.

11.3	A Council which has given notice under clause 11.2 must, unless otherwise
agreed by the Councils, withdraw from this Agreement on 30 June in any year.

11.4	A Council, which withdraws from this Agreement, shall be entitled to a portion
of the net assets of the Regional Library as at the date of its withdrawal from the Agreement, less an amount which represents the full costs to the Regional Library of the withdrawal.

11.5 The portion of net assets to which a Council is entitled under clause 11.4 -

(a) shall be calculated according to the value of the assets as disclosed by 
the relevant audited financial statements;

(b) shall be in the same proportion as its financial contribution to the 
Regional Library bears to all member Councils' financial contributions to the Regional Library over the duration of this Agreement;

(c) may be taken in such combination of property and cash as agreed 
between the Council and the Board, and if it is agreed that a Council is entitled to library materials, the cost of removing them shall be paid for by the Council.

11.6	A Council, which withdraws from this Agreement, shall be liable for a portion of 
the liabilities, including contingent liabilities, of the Regional Library as at the date of its withdrawal from the Agreement.

11.7	The portion of the liabilities and contingent liabilities to which a Council is liable 
under clause 11.6 -

(a) shall be calculated according to the liabilities and contingent liabilities
as disclosed by the relevant audited financial statements and reports, and any other notes attached to them; and

(b) shall be in the same proportion as its financial contribution to the 
Regional Library bears to all the member Councils' financial contributions to the Regional Library over the duration of this Agreement and

(c) where contracts for goods and services are affected, shall be the full cost
of any additional payments for variations to contractual arrangements resulting from the withdrawal.

        12.	DISSOLUTION OF REGIONAL LIBRARY

12.1	Subject to section 197G of the Act, the Regional Library may be dissolved by 
Agreement of at least two thirds (or such other depending on the number of parties to the Agreement) of the parties to this Agreement including those admitted as a party by supplementary agreement.

12.2	If the Regional Library is dissolved under this clause -

(a) each Council shall be entitled to a portion of the Regional Library's
assets in the same proportion as its financial contribution to the Regional Library bears to all the member Councils' financial contributions to the Regional Library over the duration of this Agreement; and

(b) each Council shall be liable for a portion of the liabilities and contingent 
liabilities of the Regional Library in the same proportion as its financial contribution to the Regional Library bears to all the member Councils' financial contributions to the Regional Library over the duration of this Agreement.

      13.	DISPUTE RESOLUTION

13.1	If there is any dispute or difference between a Council and the Regional Library
or between any of the Councils which arises out of this Agreement or concerns the Regional Library, the matter shall be determined as a dispute under the Commercial Arbitration Act 1984 and the arbitrator's decision shall be final and binding on the parties to the dispute.

13.2	The parties to the arbitration shall -

(a) be responsible for their own arbitration costs; and

(b) unless otherwise determined by the arbitrator, share the arbitrator's costs 
equally.

14.	AGREEMENT AMENDMENT

		An amendment to this Agreement has no effect unless it is -

(a) in writing and signed by all parties to the Agreement; and

(b) approved by the Minister by notice published in the Government Gazette.

15.	AGREEMENT REVIEW

		The parties shall, together with the Board, review the operations of this 
		Agreement at least once every five years.

16.	CONDITIONS PRECEDENT

		This Agreement has no effect as between the parties unless it is approved by 
		the Minister in accordance with section 196(2) of the Act.

		Executed as an Agreement.





IN WITNESS WHEREOF


in accordance with a Resolution of the Bass Coast Shire Council made on

THE COMMON SEAL of the Bass Coast Shire Council 
Was hereunto affixed on in the presence of -







 in accordance with a Resolution of the Baw Baw Shire Council made on

THE COMMON SEAL of the Baw Baw Shire Council 
Was hereunto affixed on in the presence of -








in accordance with a Resolution of the South Gippsland Shire Council made on

THE COMMON SEAL of the South Gippsland Shire Council
Was hereunto affixed on in the presence of -









SCHEDULE 1
STATEMENT OF COUNCIL ASSETS

BASS COAST SHIRE COUNCIL

*	Library Building, Thompson Avenue, COWES
*	Library Building, Watt Street, WONTHAGGI
*	Library Building, A'Beckett Street, INVERLOCH
*	Mobile Library Depot and Record Repository, Factory A, 
	Lot 5 Inverloch Road, WONTHAGGI


BAW BAW SHIRE COUNCIL

*	Library Building, 75 Victoria Street, WARRAGUL
*	Library Building, Princes Way, DROUIN
*	Library Building, Powelltown Road, NOOJEE
*	1 Portable Office (IFCO), Council Depot, WARRAGUL
*	Mobile Library Depot, WARRAGUL

SOUTH GIPPSLAND SHIRE COUNCIL

*	Library Building, 2 Smith Street, LEONGATHA
*	Library Building, Commercial Street, KORUMBURRA
*	Library Building, Ridgway, MIRBOO NORTH
*	Library Building, Main Road, POOWONG
*	Library Building, Main Street, FOSTER
*	Mobile Library Depot, FOSTER



WGRLC Agreement	- 1 -

