CONFIDENTIALITY AGREEMENT


BETWEEN




XCLIENTX

XABNX



and



WESTEND INDUSTRIES PTY LTD

ABN 47 001 020 015



















-2-

CONFIDENTIALITY AGREEMENT


THIS AGREEMENT is made the             day of                                                200_____.


BETWEEN:


XCLIENTX    XABNX 
of XADDRESSX. &/or affiliated companies 

and

WESTEND INDUSTRIES PTY LTD  ABN 47 001 020 015
Of Corner Merrylands and Holroyd Roads Merrylands NSW 2160. &/or affiliated companies ("Westend")
WHEREAS:
A.	The parties are contemplating entering into or participating in the Transactions.

B. In the course of the Transactions, either party may be making available to the other party, and that other party may learn of, certain of the Information which the first party wishes, or is required by virtue of Business Agreements to keep confidential.
WHEREBY IT IS AGREED as follows:
1		    DEFINITIONS
In the interpretation of this Agreement, including the Recitals, unless the context otherwise requires:-
"Business Agreements" means manufacturing, marketing, distribution agreements or any other agreements either existing now or which are entered into after the Date of Execution to which either 
-3-
party is a party whereby that party agrees, amongst other 
things not to disclose or supply any Information to Third Parties save for the purposes described in the Business Agreements.
"Agreement" means this deed as amended by the Parties from time to time pursuant to the terms herein;
"Business Day" means that time between the hours of 9.OOam to 4.3Opm Monday to Friday inclusive as applicable to each party's time zone but excluding public holidays;
"Date of Execution" means the date on which the last of the Parties executes this Agreement;
"Information" means all information including, but not limited to, data, reports (technical or otherwise), designs, drawings, notes, records, copies, assessments, financial statements and any other financial information, advises disclosed by, or on behalf of, either party to the other party, both prior to and in the course of the Transactions;
"Party" means "XXXX" or "Westend" and "Parties" is a reference to both of them;
"Transactions" means the business transactions being contemplated between the parties, summarised in the First Schedule, and all transactions associated or consequential thereto.

2	INTERPRETATION
	In the interpretation of this Agreement, including the Recitals, unless the context otherwise requires:
	2.1	Words importing the singular shall include the plural and vice versa and words importing gender shall include all genders.
	2.2	Words importing persons shall include a firm, company, corporation, authority, incorporated or unincorporated association, syndicate, joint venture or other entity whether incorporated or not.
2.3	A reference to any act or regulation shall include a reference to any act or regulation amending or in substitution for or in lieu of that act or regulation.
-4-
2.4	The headings shall not form part of this Agreement and shall not be relevant to its interpretation.
2.5	References to Clauses, Sub-clauses, Paragraphs, Schedules and Recitals are references to clauses, sub-clauses, paragraphs, schedules and recitals of this Agreement.
2.6	Where a word or expression is defined in this Agreement, other grammatical forms of that word or expression used in this Agreement bear a corresponding meaning.
2.7	An agreement, representation or warranty in favour of two or more persons is for the benefit of them jointly and severally. If two or more persons undertake an obligation or give any warranty, they shall be bound thereby jointly and severally.
2.8	A reference to a Party includes that Party's successors and permitted assigns.
2.9 Wherever reference is made in this Agreement to a covenant or agreement contained in this Agreement the same shall (subject to the provisions of this Agreement) be deemed to extend to and include all covenants, agreements, conditions and provisions implied in this Agreement by virtue of any statute.

3	THE INFORMATION
3.1 Subject to this Agreement, each party shall treat the Information disclosed to him as private and confidential, and shall take all reasonable steps to ensure that the information is made known only to any other person to whom the other party has agreed in writing that the Information may be disclosed and whose duties and functions require a knowledge of or access to the Information.

3.2 Each party shall, to the extent permitted by law, require          every person to whom he intends to disclose the information to  give a written undertaking to keep the Information confidential 




-5-

on terms at least as strict as those provided in this Agreement.
3.3	Each party shall not discuss, communicate, copy, transcribe or reproduce by any means whatsoever any of the Information that may be provided by the other party without obtaining the prior written consent of that other party.
4	USE OF INFORMATION
	4.1     Without the prior consent in writing of a party, the other party 
          shall not use the information in whole or in part for any purpose other than in considering the Transactions.
4.2	Each party shall not use, or suffer to be used, the Information in a manner detrimental to the interests of the other party.
4.3 Either party covenants with the other party and agrees that he shall report immediately to the other party if he should learn of any use or disclosure of the information which is without the consent of that other party, or is unlawful or is in breach of this Agreement.

5	RETURN OF THE INFORMATION
5.1	For the purpose of this Clause, "materials" means both originals and copies howsoever recorded or stored of all materials, notes, documents, drawings, writings, papers and all other things which contain, disclose or set out the Information or any part thereof, and includes those materials, notes, documents, drawings, writings, papers and other things which are made available by one party to the other party.
5.2	Either party shall return all materials to the other party whenever he is required by the requesting party to do so.
5.3	After the return of all materials the party, shall not make any further use of the Information.
5.4 Either party shall return all materials to the other party in 
any event when he has ceased participating in the Transactions.

- 6 -
6       OWNERSHIP OF THE INFORMATION

Property in the Information shall not pass to the other party by virtue of the provisions of this Agreement.


7        GENERAL KNOWLEDGE
	The restrictions in this Agreement upon either party shall not apply in respect of -                               
	  (a)	     knowledge of the Information that is available to the  
                        general public at the time of its receipt by the   other party
(b)	knowledge of the Information which either party shall have lawfully obtained from any third party, involving no fault or omission on the part of that party; or
(c)	knowledge of the Information that at the date of the Agreement is known to that party
PROVIDED ALWAYS that for each party to be entitled to the benefit of any of the foregoing exclusions, the onus of clearly establishing that the conduct of that party (whether by act or omission) is within that exclusion shall be upon that party at all times.

8        RELEASE

           Each party shall release and hold the other party and its directors harmless from: -
 (a)       any claim as to the lack of completeness or accuracy    of the Information; and
(b) all responsibility and liability for conclusions derived from the Information.




-7-
9 NOTICES

9.1	All notices required under this Agreement shall be given in writing and served on the relevant party at the address set out on the first page of this Agreement or any other address as may be advised in writing from time to time.
9.2	A notice sent by mail shall be sent by certified mail and shall be deemed to have been received:
(a) sent from within Australia, then on the day following the expiry of 2 clear days from the date shown on the certified mail posting receipt card; and
(b)	if sent from outside Australia, then on the day following the expiry of 10 clear days from the date shown on the certified mail posting receipt card.
9.3	A notice delivered by e-mail shall be deemed to arrive on the day of delivery if delivered during a business day and if not delivered during a business day then shall be deemed to arrive the next following business day.
9.4	A notice sent by facsimile or e-mail shall be deemed to have been received when the sender's machine confirms that the transmission has been successful and where a facsimile or e-mail is sent it must be immediately followed by a hard copy by post or hand delivery, noting the date time that the facsimile or email was sent.
9.5 Any communication of a notice made by a solicitor of one party shall be deemed to have been made with the authority of that party.

	10	RELATIONSHIP OF PARTIES
10.1	The relationship between the Parties shall be limited to the performance of the objects provided for in this Agreement.
10.2 Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed as bringing into existence any partnership or agency between the Parties.


-8-
11       WAIVER
11.1	The failure, delay or omission by either party to exercise a power or right conferred on that party by this Agreement shall not operate as a waiver of that power or right.
11.2	Any single exercise of a power or right will not preclude another exercise of that power or right or the exercise of another power or right under this Agreement.
11.3 Any waiver of a provision of this Agreement or consent to a departure by a Party from a provision of this Agreement must be in writing and signed by the Party granting the waiver to the other Party.

12      VARIATION
This Agreement shall not be varied unless in writing and executed by the Parties.

13      SEVERANCE
If any provision in this Agreement is found to be unlawful, invalid, unenforceable or in conflict with any rule of law, statute, ordinance or regulation, the validity and enforceability of the remaining provisions of this Agreement shall remain in force as if that provision had not been included.

14      ENTIRE AGREEMENT
This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement between the Parties and supersedes all prior negotiations, representations, proposals, undertakings and agreements, whether written or oral, relating to the subject matter of this Agreement.

15     GOVERNING LAW
This Agreement shall be construed and take effect in accordance with the relevant law for the time being applicable in the State of New South Wales and the Parties hereby submit themselves to the jurisdiction of the relevant Courts of the State of New South Wales.


-9-

EXECUTED by the Parties as a Deed on the date hereof


XCLIENTX
XABNX

DIRECTOR                                                                            
NAME (Please Print) ........................................................................                                                             


SIGNED: ................................................ Date:-     /    /2001


in the presence of:


............................................................................. Date:-     /    /2001
Witness Signature


.............................................................................
Witness Name




WESTEND INDUSTRIES PTY LTD
ABN 47 001 020 015


DIRECTOR                                                                            
NAME (Please Print) ........................................................................                                                             


SIGNED: ................................................ Date:-     /    /2001


in the presence of:


............................................................................. Date:-     /    /2001
Witness Signature


.............................................................................
Witness Name



-10-

FIRST SCHEDULE


Summary of the Transactions


1.0 All Information concerning the manufacturing (whether by "XXXX" or any other person), marketing and distribution of any product or products marketed and distributed (and manufactured if applicable) by "XXXX" and any other business activity in which "XXXX" may be involved but not to include material handling or application equipment.

2.0 All Information concerning the manufacturing (whether by "Westend" or any other person), marketing and distribution of any product or products marketed and distributed (and manufactured if applicable) by "Westend" and any other business activity in which "Westend" may be involved but not to include cementitious mix designs, formulations or any product or process relating to the production thereof.


3.0 In the event that during the course of 'Westend' addressing the client's XCLIENTX needs or requirements, 'Westend' may develop designs, concepts or procedures of a novel nature (novelties), the ownership of said (novelties) remains with 'Westend'. The application or use of all or part of such 'novelties' in the production of or solutions for XCLIENTX does not infer transfer of ownership, the ownership of said 'novelties' remains with 'Westend'.


