

PROFESSIONAL TRAINING AGREEMENT

BETWEEN


SUPERVISING SURVEYOR

AND A

CANDIDATE REGISTERED WITH THE TASMANIAN LAND SURVEYORS ACCREDITATION BOARD








Tasmanian Land Surveyors Accreditation Board

Institution of Surveyors (Tasmanian Division)





PROFESSIONAL TRAINING AGREEMENT1

1.	PURPOSE

This agreement records the training programme to be undertaken by (_______________), a candidate registered with the Tasmanian Land Surveyors Accreditation Board (TLSAB), under the guidance of the supervising surveyor (________________).

The supervising surveyor and the candidate should review the relevant legislation and any guidelines published by the Tasmanian Land Surveyors Accreditation Board, particularly:
1. The Surveyors Act 2002.
2. The Surveyors Regulations 2003.
3. The TLSAB "Guidelines for Candidates Seeking a Certificate of Competency Leading to Registration Under the Surveyors Act 2002".

Successful completion of the training programme should fully prepare a candidate for examination by the TLSAB.

2.	THE SUPERVISING SURVEYOR

Describe the supervising surveyor by name, address and qualifications. Give a brief record of experience and appointments.  List membership of professional associations.

3.	THE CANDIDATE

Describe the candidate by name, address and qualifications. Make reference to any academic records and experience in surveying contained in attachments.

4.	THE COMPANY

Describe the company by listing principals, areas of operation, types of work undertaken, equipment and resources, and any particular opportunities or potential lack of opportunities for the candidate. 



5.	ESSENCE OF AGREEMENT

5.1	The candidate agrees to train with the supervising surveyor in the profession of land surveying for a period of (___ normally two years___) commencing on (___date___).

5.3	The supervising surveyor will instruct the candidate in the profession of land surveying or provide opportunities for the candidate to be instructed.

5.4	The supervising surveyor will permit the candidate to attend such lectures and examinations as may necessary or required for their instruction in the profession of land surveying.



5.5	The period of training shall include the periods of experience required by the Surveyors Regulations 2003, viz:
* A minimum of 2 years supervised experience, of which a minimum of 12 months is in Tasmania;
* A minimum of 12 months post-graduation experience, of which a minimum of 6 months is in Tasmania;
* A minimum of 18 months on cadastral boundary definition, of which a minimum of 6 months is in Tasmania.


Note here if the Agreement applies to periods of experience that do not meet the normal minimum requirement specified in the Surveyors Regulations 2003







6.	CANDIDATE'S COMPETENCIES (INITIALLY)

Describe the competencies, experience and knowledge at the start of the training period here. If that is not practical, provide them on an attachment and refer to it at paragraph 3. This statement will assist the preparation of the training programme and its time schedule.



7.	SCOPE OF TRAINING

Append to the signed Agreement (as "Attachment A") section 5 of the Guidelines for Supervising Surveyors, annotated if required to detail the training to be provided under this Agreement.



8 	LEVEL OF SUPERVISION

Append to the signed Agreement (as "Attachment B") section 6 of the Guidelines for Supervising Surveyors, annotated as required to detail the level of supervision to be provided under this Agreement.

Strict supervision can only be relaxed as the candidate demonstrates that it is appropriate to do so. The candidate's development depends on a progressively reduced level of supervision.

9.	EXCLUSIONS

If the company does not carry out some types of work (or some components of work), or use some type of equipment, which are essential or desirable for the candidate's development, they should be itemised. The responsibility for attaining this experience should be allocated and if it is to be included within this training agreement the solution should be described. If the excluded training is to be achieved through another surveyor and company but within the ambit of this agreement, the responsibility of the supervising surveyor and the other surveyor should be set out.



10	TIME SCHEDULE 

It is recommended that the agreement include a time schedule targeting dates for achievement of each of the competencies described in a "Scope of Training" (see Appendix A for an example).  This will allow both parties to monitor progress of the training, correct any identified problems and to understand the magnitude of the task from the start. The candidate should participate in the preparation of the time schedule.   Attach the time schedule as Attachment C to the signed Agreement.



11	RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE SUPERVISING SURVEYOR

The responsibilities of the supervising surveyor under this agreement are stated in section 7 of the Guidelines for Supervising Surveyors.  Append a copy, annotated as required, as attachment D to the signed Agreement.


12.	RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE CANDIDATE

The responsibilities of the candidate under this agreement are stated in section 8 of the Guidelines for Supervising Surveyors.  Append a copy, annotated as required, as attachment E to the signed Agreement.


13	ACCOUNTABILITY AND REPUTATION

It is recognised that the candidate (during this agreement and after accreditation) is a reflection on the supervisor and on the company (in fieldnotes, project work and direct relations with the client and the public). The candidate's training is at least as important to the supervisor as the successful completion of survey jobs. The supervisor and company will provide every possible tuition, guidance and opportunity, but the candidate will only be progressed to the next stage when ability is proven.

Despite any intention of the candidate to specialise once accredited by the Board, this training must give a balanced general training in all aspects of cadastral work. Competency in all aspects must be demonstrated before the candidate should be recommended as competent to present for examination.

14.	TRAINING REPORTS

The candidate and the supervising surveyor will maintain the records required by section 9 of the Guidelines for Supervising Surveyors and will submit training reports to the Board as required.




15.		CERTIFICATION

We the abovenamed certify our acceptance of this professional training agreement.

Dated this (_____) day of *, Two Thousand and ** (20**).


____________________________________________________________________	
Supervising Surveyor 	Candidate		Date


_____________________________________________________________________Witness 									 Witness




Approved by the Tasmanian Land Surveyors Accreditation Board


_____________________________________________________________________
Chairman			Secretary		Date




Registered......../......../.......

APPENDIX A
TIME SCHEDULE OF PROFESSIONAL TRAINING PROGRAM

SAMPLE


QUARTERTOPIC12345678Safe Working Practices*ttttttBasic Field skillstt*tttttError eliminationt*tttttRural cadastral pickupttt*ttttUrban cadastral pickupttt*ttGeodetic connections and computations ttt*ttttUse of GPStt*tAchievement of accuracyttt*ttttTeam leadership (field)tt*ttttSurvey document searchttt*tSurvey computationst*ttttttField notestt*tttttPlan draftingtt*tttBuilding set-out w.r.t property boundariestt*ttCalibrationttttt*ttClient instructions & liaisontt*Strata Plans, Survey-strata planstt*Repegs, identstt*ttOffice procedures (quality)tttt*Total  Subdivision Processtt*Knowledge of Acts etctttt*tttProfessional practice, ethicsttttt*Experience with general law  landtt
Legend

t	Means initial or ongoing training will be included in this quarter.
*	Means the candidate should attain sufficient competence for accreditation by this quarter.

Note: Organisations may choose to amend this schedule for each agreement, or may choose to adopt their own graduate training program.
DRAFT NUMBER 11.1.1998Guidelines for Supervising Surveyors

1.	Introduction1.INTRODUCTION

These guidelines are to inform supervising surveyors of their obligations and responsibilities in the training of candidates under a Professional Training Agreement.

Professional Training Agreements are taken very seriously by the Board.  Although the Board conducts final examinations of candidates prior to granting Certificates of Competency, it can only ever be a general indication of the competence of the candidates.  The real tests occur during the life of the Professional Training Agreement where the level of knowledge and character necessary to become a professional surveyor is determined by the supervising surveyor.  It is only when a candidate has achieved that standard in the mind of the supervisor that approval should be given for the candidate to present to the Board in the final examinations.  Poorly presented candidates reflect on the reputation of the supervising surveyor.

During the training agreement and after registration, the graduate surveyor is a reflection of the supervisor and on the company.  The supervisor and company should provide every possible tuition, guidance and opportunity and the candidate should only be progressed to the next stage when ability is proven.

Despite any intention of the candidate to specialise once registered, the training must give a balanced general training in all aspects of cadastral work.  Competency in all aspects must be demonstrated before the candidate is recommended for the examination.

These guidelines should be read in conjunction with the Surveyors Act 2002, the Surveyors Regulations 2003 and the Board's "Guidelines for Candidates Seeking a Certificate of Competency Leading to Registration Under the Surveyors Act 2002".



2.	Definitions2.DEFINITIONS

In these guidelines the following expressions have the following meanings:

?  "Board" means the Tasmanian Land Surveyors Accreditation Board.

? "Candidate" means a undergraduate or graduate surveyor who is a party to a Professional Training Agreement.

? "Supervising Surveyor" or "Supervisor" means a registered land surveyor who agrees to supervise a candidate under a Professional Training Agreement.



3.	The Professional Training Agreement3.THE PROFESSIONAL TRAINING AGREEMENT

The purpose of the professional training agreement (PTA) is to provide the candidate with a structured training program of education and professional development.  The PTA should be structured so as to enable the candidate to progress to the level of a competent professional surveyor in an efficient and effective manner.  The PTA should take into account local conditions and specialisations.  It should be prepared by the supervising surveyor in consultation with the candidate.



4.	Competency Standards4.COMPETENCY STANDARDS

The Institution of Surveyors Australia Incorporated (ISA) in conjunction with the Reciprocating Surveyors' Boards of Australia and New Zealand has developed "National Competency Standards for Professional Surveyors".  While those standards (published in July 1996) do not specifically deal with cadastral surveys, these guidelines are based on those general standards.

In particular, pages 51 through 66 of those National Competency Standards detail the necessary "Key Competencies" for stage 2 (equivalent to the period of a professional training agreement).

Supervisors are to ensure that candidates achieve the level of competency and professional development required by the Board as outlined herein and in the competency based standards for surveyors.  Candidates should be exposed to a variety of surveys and challenged by difficult and complex situations.  Supervisors are to ensure that any deficiencies in the candidate's skills are rectified.

The training should be broadly based, not specialised.  The training subjects that should be covered are detailed in guideline 5.  Some require full competence while others only require an awareness.

Two topics deserve special mention as they are vital to the ultimate professionalism of every surveyor-

? Professional ethics should be impressed on the candidate both by example and by instruction throughout the period of the PTA; and

? Leadership is a quality necessary to all surveyors.


5.	Skills and knowledge to be demonstrated5.SKILLS TO BE TAUGHT

In transforming the generic competencies to the specific cadastral area, the candidate should demonstrate the following competencies and, where appropriate, receive such training as is needed to acquire these competencies:

5.1	Safety
-	Safe working practices.  The learning of safe working practices must precede any other training.	

5.2	Basic Practical Field Skills
-	Linear measurements using steel band and electronic distance measuring equipment,
-		Levelling, theodolite angle measurement, total stations
-		Global Positioning Systems, including real-time kinematic and differential GPS using a commercially broadcast correction.
-		Electronic and manual methods of data recording,
-		Placement and referencing of boundary and general survey marks,
-		Independent checking of observations and error-elimination procedures,
-		Use and maintenance of tools, equipment, and vehicles,
-		Safety procedures and safe work practices.

5.3	 Re-Establishment Of Alignments
-	Location of old survey marks and occupation
-	Re-establishment of title boundaries through the analysis of available evidence,
-	Determination of adoptions based on the principles associated with crown boundaries, previous surveys, survey marks, and occupation.

5.4	 Map, Geodetic And Height Datums
-	Field surveys based on the Australian Geodetic Datum, its derivation the Australian Map Grid, and the Australian Height Datum. 
-	The Geocentric Datum Australia.  
-	The dependence of Global Positioning System surveys upon these datums.

5.5	 Accuracy
-	The standards of accuracy required in field surveys.
-	How to achieve the necessary standard in each situation encountered.

5.6	 Team Leadership
-	Staff supervision and field party leadership,
 -	Responsible use of vehicles and equipment,
 -	Bushcraft, especially in remote areas,
 -	Responsibility for the team.

5.7	 Survey Information
-	Searching and interpretation of title and survey information from the appropriate sources. 
-	The relevance and availability and use of this analogue and digital information, (not necessarily familiarity with the physical actions of obtaining the information).

5.8	 Survey Computations
-	Computer hardware and software and their applications to surveying and a surveying practice in general.
-	The application of general survey computations learned in the university course.
-	Calculation of re-establishment of cadastral alignments:-
*	including distribution of original errors into the most probably correct places;
*	achieving a best fit of boundaries to available original marks and dimensions; and
*	taking into account legal implications.

5.9	 Drafting
-	Familiarity with the different requirements (regulations, guidelines and conventions) for drafting plans under the various land tenure Acts - sufficient to instruct and control the drafting, not necessarily enough to physically draft the plans personally.

5.10 Documentation
-	Preparation of the other survey and business documentation related to surveys (eg field notes, sketch plans, applications, reports and correspondence).

5.11 Calibration
-	Understanding of the need for repeated calibration of equipment, and competency in the calibration of all equipment and instruments used.

5.12 Ethics
-	Ethics, as apply to a professional person generally, and as apply to a registered land surveyor in particular. 

5.13 Statutory Common Law Requirements
-	Familiarity with the various Acts, regulations, directions, guidelines and manuals relevant to a survey practice.
-	Awareness of Common Law as it affects land tenure.
-	Sound knowledge of the various regulations, directions and guidelines related to cadastral surveys.  This should include the practices and procedures of the various survey registering agencies.  It is emphasised that training in the practical application of the regulations is essential.  Acts, regulations, directions, guidelines and procedures are now changing frequently, so it is necessary that library and knowledge be kept up to date.

5.14 Building Set-Out
-	Experience in building set-out or control with respect to a boundary (not necessarily multi-storey)

5.15 Total Subdivision Process
-	Experience of the total subdivision process, including local government, planning authorities, servicing authorities, engineering and finance.

5.16 Survey Office Procedures
-	Survey office procedures with an emphasis on quality assurance and the avoidance of mistakes.

5.17 Strata Titles
-	The Strata Titles Act and associated plans and surveys.

5.18	Searching of general law land and subdivision of general law land.

5.19	Adverse possession claims.

5.20	Bringing general law land under the Land Titles Act.

5.21	Definition and re-establishment of tidal and non tidal riparian boundaries, the nature of those boundaries and the rights that are conferred.

It is expected that the candidate will be competent in all of the preceding subjects, 5.1 to 5.21, at the time of completion of the professional training agreement.


It is expected that the candidate will be aware or familiar with the following subjects, 5.22 to 5.24, at the time of completion of the professional training agreement, and that following accreditation will work in a structure with limited guidance until competent in those subjects.

5.22	Knowledge of the nature of the different kinds of subdivision processes under the various Acts, the many opportunities they afford and the requirements of each.

5.23	Subdivision design and options and optimisation.

5.24	Understanding clients needs and guiding their instructions to give them the best results.  Informing them as to costs and time frame.  Ongoing client relations.

While the above subjects give a basic training that will allow the registered land surveyor to practise effectively in a wide range of work; there are a number of other subjects which will either allow more efficient work in some situations or will allow specialised or unusual jobs to be carried out.  It is recommended that some such subjects be covered by each candidate - and credit will be given for such subjects.


6.	Level Of  Supervision6.LEVEL OF SUPERVISION

The surveyor is solely responsible for surveys carried out under his/her supervision, and all surveyors should exercise a standard of supervision that will ensure that surveys reflects their professional responsibilities and comply with relevant statutes.

The extent of supervision will vary according to the experience and skill and ethics of the candidate.  The recommended level of supervision is as follows:-

6.1		The supervisor should fully brief the candidate on the purpose and details of the survey before the candidate commences involvement in that survey,

6.2		The supervisor should discuss all aspects of the survey with the candidate at the completion of the work,

6.3		Early in the training period the supervising surveyor should always accompany the candidate on site, until the candidate demonstrates an ability to act as team leader for some parts of the survey.   From that time onwards the frequency of on site supervision can be reduced, but-
?  the supervisor should be present on sufficient occasions during each survey to ensure that the candidate's problems are solved expeditiously,
?  the supervisor should inspect the marking and physical aspects of the survey, and the field records, closes, re-establishment etc on its completion, and
? the supervisor should effect sufficient angular and linear checks of the surveys to be satisfied with the standard and accuracy of the candidate's work.

6.4		Just before the successful completion of the training agreement it is acceptable for the supervision of the candidate to be reduced for the specific purpose of the further professional development of the candidate's work attitude and ethics.

6.5		If the supervising surveyor wishes to lessen supervision (under guideline 6.4), the supervisor should advise the Board in writing that the candidate is within three months of sitting final examinations and will be receiving only off-site supervision.		

6.6		The supervising surveyor will still be wholly responsible for the correctness of the surveys.

6.7		It is recommended that in the period of off-site supervision:-
? in the cases of simple jobs, the supervising surveyor should inspect the field record of each job, and
? in other cases the candidate should prepare a short survey report describing important aspects of each survey (particularly the re-establishment) and
? that this record be retained by the supervising surveyor and forms part of the off-site supervision.  These reports could form part of the documentation presented to the Board supporting the candidate's application for registration as a land surveyor.

6.8		Acceptance of only off-site supervision is limited to the final period of a candidate's training.  It is never to be extended to a person who is not under a training agreement, no matter how extensive that person's experience.

6.9		Supervisors should act within the confines and the spirit of the certificate signed in each fieldbook (namely, "under my own personal supervision, inspection and field check") lodged during the period of a Professional Training Agreement.  The fact that the supervisor has signed the plan and fieldbook indicates satisfaction as to the accuracy of the survey, that the survey is in accordance with the regulations, and an acceptance of full responsibility for the survey.

7.	Responsibilities Of The Supervisor

The professional training of a candidate is an important and demanding role, not one to be undertaken lightly or for the wrong reasons.  The responsibilities of the surveyor include,:-

7.1	to provide the range of experience necessary for the candidate's development,
7.2	to provide the tuition and guidance necessary for the candidate's development (both technical and professional),
7.3	to be wholly responsible for the correct performance of jobs by the candidate,
7.4	to treat the candidate's development as of primary importance and not just an ancillary activity to the running of the firm or the correct completion of surveys,
7.5	to encourage the candidate's participation in continuing professional development courses.	
7.6 	to be responsible for effective feedback to the candidate on every job,
7.7	to report to the Board on a regular basis on the progress of the candidate's training.  (Refer to guideline 9).
7.8	to be responsible for the decision to put the candidate forward for examination.  The Board must depend heavily on the surveyor's opinion as to the candidate's readiness,
 	
The Professional Training Agreement should state the extent of the supervisor's responsibility (if any is accepted) for arranging or participating in training (of a stated nature) that is not available within the supervisor's firm.  To clarify the extent or basis of the agreement it is beneficial for it to list the scope of work normally done by the supervisor, and to list any necessary types of work which the supervisor does not do.

It is recognised that the supervisor is not committed to successfully complete the candidate's development within any time frame, even though a time schedule is included in the agreement.  The length of time necessary to complete the training is dependant on the ability and endeavours of the candidate.



8. Responsibilities of The Candidate

8.1	Fundamental and general educational matters (including familiarity with Acts, regulations, guidelines and manuals) should not be neglected by the candidate.
8.2	The length of elapsed time before accreditation is expected to be heavily dependant on the amount of personal time that the candidate is prepared to contribute during (and before) the Training Agreement.
8.3	The candidate is responsible for ensuring that sufficient time is spent on continuing professional development.
8.4	The candidate is responsible for keeping records of the training received and for informing the supervisor of any slippage of time.

8.5	To clarify the basis for the agreement (and to assist in preparing an achievable time schedule) it is beneficial for the agreement to include a realistic description of the candidate's competencies, experience and knowledge before entering the agreement.


9.	Training Reports

9.1	The following records should be maintained.  The maintenance of these records will help the supervising surveyor and the candidate to identify any deficiencies in the training program, and will assist with the preparation of reports to the Board (Forms 1 and 2 attached).

? BY THE CANDIDATE:-
-	a work folder of representative completed jobs;
-	a summary assessment of the candidate's own perception of progress with the components undertaken during the period;
-	a personal work diary recording individual jobs that the candidate has been involved with and validating the type of work experience and the accrual of training days; and
-	a record of the professional development courses that have been attended.

? BY THE SUPERVISING SURVEYOR:-
-	reports covering the level of skill and knowledge of the candidate, such that the degree and complexity of work and responsibilities can be analysed; and
-	verification, comment and signing off of the candidate's work folder and work diary.

	Each entry in the records described above in this paragraph should specifically state which of the skills listed in guideline 5 have been developed during that job.

9.2	Each supervisor who has undertaken in-full or in-part a component of a candidate's training is required to document the categories of training and the period during which it was undertaken.  A certificate (Form 1) to that effect is required to be signed after each period.

9.3	The period and categories of training must aggregate to at least the minimum requirement set out in the Board approved agreement.

9.4	The Supervising Surveyor shall provide reports to the Board initially on a three (3) monthly basis for the first two (2) reports and thereafter on a six (6) monthly basis, covering the level of skill and knowledge of the candidate, such that the degree and complexity of work and responsibilities can be analysed.  See Form 1 attached.

9.5	The Board will monitor the progress through the reports, and where necessary provide counselling and assistance to ensure appropriate training opportunities are provided to the candidate and support is available to the Supervising Surveyor.



10.	Statutory Declaration11.STATUTORY DECLARATION

A statutory declaration is required to be signed by the supervisor in the agreement, testifying that in his/her opinion, the candidate is capable of successfully progressing to examination and operating as a registered land surveyor in their own right.  See Form 2)

11.	The Examination

11.1	Examination Timing
	The supervisor decides when a candidate has the all-round skills and knowledge to result in a successful completion of the Board's examination.  There will always be personal and commercial pressures that may influence the timing of that decision.  The focus must however always be on the capability of the candidate to perform as a registed surveyor in their own right.

11.2	Certification Of Project Work
	The candidate must certify that the examination projects are their own work.  Refer to schedule 3 of the Regulations and the Guidelines for Candidates ....for more information.

11.3		Equipment
	The supervisor should ensure that the candidate is given the best possible support to ensure a successful result at the Board's examination.  This should include appropriate access to equipment and staff for examination surveys.

11.4	Examination Preparation
	The supervising surveyor should consider work allocation when the candidate is undertaking surveys for examination, to ensure the candidate has adequate time and opportunitiy.

12.	Transfer Of An Agreement

	If circumstances arise such that the candidate's training cannot be optimally managed by the supervising surveyor, then the supervising surveyor should arrange transfer of the professional training agreement, or in extreme cases its suspension or termination.  This should be undertaken in consultation with the Board.

13.	Dispute Resolution13.DISPUTE RESOLUTION

		If the aspirations and commitments of both parties are discussed during the shared preparation of the agreement, and if the candidate's progress is discussed frequently during the period of the agreement, a dispute is unlikely.

		If a dispute arises that cannot be readily resolved by the supervisor and candidate, the Board will willingly provide a Board member to assist with negotiations or resolution.  Such assistance will not infer blame.

14.		Termination Of Agreement

		It is prudent for both parties to include in the Professional Training Agreement a clause that outlines the circumstances and conditions relating to the termination of the agreement. The Board suggests that the provisions of paragraphs 13 & 14 above be fully considered before implementing such termination. The Board must be notified of the termination of an agreement. The notification should include evidence that both parties concur with the termination. The Board should be provided with a Certificate of Service for its records.




FORM 1
SURVEYORS ACT 2002
Surveyors Regulations 2003
STATEMENT OF PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT
Use this form to record and submit to the Tasmanian Land Surveyors Accreditation Board evidence of the candidate's professional experience during the period of the Professional Training Agreement.  

I, .............................................................., a surveyor registered under the Surveyors Act 2002, hereby certify that .........................................., a registered candidate - 
(1) has been professionally and continuously employed with me in the practice of land surveying from ................... to ...................., that is a period of ........................... months;
(2) has, during that period, gained the following experience -


Length of Time (in weeks) over which the candidate has obtained practical experience under a professional training agreement
Nature of Practical Experience Obtained by the CandidateOffice ExperienceField Experience as a General AssistantField Experience as an Instrument OperatorField Experience as a Party LeaderTotal Experience ObtainedUrban Land Boundary Surveys:Rural Land Boundary Surveys:
Other Types of SurveyTotal Experience
Dated at ......................................................... this day ..................................... of 20.......
.............................................
Registered land surveyor

A Statement of Professional Development should normally be submitted to the Board at the completion of 3 months, 6 months, 12 months professional experience, and 6-monthly thereafter.

? 3 months	? 6 months	? 12 months	? 18 months	? 24 months	? .... months

The supervising surveyor and the candidate should bring to the Board's attention any significant departure from the agreed PTA or significant delays in the candidate's progress against the time schedule contained in the PTA.



FORM 2
SURVEYORS ACT 2002
Surveyors Regulations 2003

CERTIFICATE OF PROFESSIONAL TRAINING

Use this form to at the completion of the candidate's Professional Training to certify that the candidate has achieved the level of competency required by the Professional Training Agreement. 




I, .............................................................., a land surveyor registered under the Surveyors Act 2002, hereby certify that in my opinion  .........................................., a registered candidate under my supervsion, has the competencies required by the Tasmanian Land Surveyors Accreditation Board and detailed in the candidate's Professional Training Agreement.



Dated at ......................................................... this day ..................................... of 20......
	
			..............................................Registered Land Surveyor


1 This current version of the Professional Training Agreement will be reviewed by the Tasmanian Land Surveyors Accreditation Board following 12 months of operation.  Please forward any recommendations that will assist the Board to improve the agreement or its operation, to the Secretary, Tasmanian Land Surveyors Accreditation Board, GPO Box 1194, Hobat 7001. 
??

??

??

??

1


1








Tasmanian PTA version 6.doc

1
Tasmanian Land Surveyors Accreditation Board
Professional Training Agreement



August, 2007

