


INDIGENOUS ARTIST AND ART CENTRE AGREEMENT

THIS AGREEMENT IS MADE BETWEEN:
The art centre identified in Schedule 1 (Art Centre)
AND
The artist identified in Schedule 1 (Artist)

RECITALS
The Artist wishes to collaborate with the Art Centre on the terms of this agreement.

THE PARTIES AGREE AS FOLLOWS:
1. Definitions
1.1. In this agreement, unless the context requires otherwise:
Art Dealings means any Sale and any administrative matter, business, or agreement that relates to Artworks.
Artwork means the works described in Schedule 1. 
Intellectual Property means any copyright, trademark, moral rights, or other rights existing in the Artworks, including any applicable statutory resale royalty right, but does not include rights in the physical property of the Artwork.
Art Centre's Commission means the commission stated in Schedule 1.
Artist's Payment means the payment stated in Schedule 1;
Retail Value means the GST exclusive price at which each Artwork is first listed for sale. 
Sale means the transfer of ownership of an Artwork from the Artist to a purchaser in return for the payment of an agreed amount.
2. Term
2.1. This agreement will remain in force for the term specified in Schedule 1.
3. Duties of the Art Centre
3.1. During the Term, the Art Centre must provide and meet the costs of the following services:
a promote the Artist and the Artwork and represent the Artist in all Art Dealings on the basis specified in Schedule 1;
b provide the Artist with reasonable access to a secure environment in which the Artist can create Artwork, and where the Artist can store that Artwork and the materials being used to create that Artwork whilst Artwork is being created;
c make available to the Artist canvases, paint and other materials for the purpose of creating Artwork at no cost to the Artist;
d provide relevant direction and advice by a person with appropriate experience including in relation to techniques for creating Artwork and the materials used in creating the Artwork, the market for the Artwork, and estimates of the market price for the Artwork;
e catalogue and record each Artwork and provide a written form of authentication to accompany each Artwork;
f properly recognise and acknowledge the Artist in all promotional events and promotional materials that relate to Artwork, and provide the Artist with a copy of any promotional materials produced;
g establish the appropriate Retail Value for each Artwork in consultation with the Artist;
h keep the Artwork available for sale at the Retail Value and not discount the Retail Value of any Artwork without the Artist's prior written consent;
i display the Artwork in the manner determined in consultation with the Artist or take reasonable steps to store it in a secure environment;
j restrict access to and sale of Artworks that the Artist says are of particular cultural significance as directed by the Artist;
k take out and maintain adequate insurance against loss, damage, theft and destruction of the Artworks provided to the Art Centre under this agreement; and
l at all times act in the best interests of the Artist, and exercise all care, attention and skill in respect of all Art Dealings.
3.2. During the Term, the Art Centre will make a reasonable effort to provide and meet the costs of the following services as appropriate to promote the Artist and the Artwork:
a apply for grants and funding for the professional development of the artists associated with the Art Centre and provide the Artist with opportunities under those funding arrangements;
b arrange for the Artwork to be included in exhibitions hosted by third parties;
c arrange travel, accommodation and meals as appropriate for the Artist to attend exhibitions hosted by third parties at which the Artwork is featured or displayed;
d identify, advise and assist the Artist in relation to, relevant public or private commissions, and collaborative or community art projects.
4. Consignment to other art centres or galleries
4.1. The Art Centre may provide Artworks to other art centres or galleries (Other Gallery) on a consignment basis provided that the commission retained by the Other Gallery does not exceed the rate specified in Schedule 1.
5. Duties of the Artist
5.1. During the Term, the Artist must:
a deal with the Art Centre in relation to all Art Dealings and any matter governed by this agreement on the basis specified in Schedule 1; 
b keep the Art Centre informed as to the Artist's current contact and payment details including address, telephone numbers and email address; and 
c allow the Art Centre to deduct the Art Centre's Commission for any Sale.
5.2. Where the relationship specified in Schedule 1 is exclusive, the Artist must:
a inform the Art Centre as soon as possible after Artwork has been created and deliver the Artwork to the Art Centre; 
b not enter into any similar agreement, understanding or arrangement with any other person or entity; 
c not sell or offer to sell any of the Artwork to any other person or entity other than the Art Centre, either directly or indirectly, whether for money, gifts or in return for anything else; 
d not accept any offer to sell any Artwork to any other person or entity other than Art Centre, either directly or indirectly, whether for money, gifts or in return for anything else; 
e immediately stop, and not resume, any discussions that the Artist may have commenced with any other person or entity other than Art Centre concerning any matter governed by this agreement; and
f promptly notify the Art Centre of any other person or entity who offers to acquire, directly or indirectly, any Artwork, either for themselves or on behalf of a third party.
6. Sales and Payment of Commission to the Art Centre
6.1. Upon receipt of money from any Sale of Artwork, the Art Centre must retain the Art Centre's Commission and pay the Artist's Payment to the Artist by cheque or any other method notified to the Art Centre within the period specified in Schedule 1.
6.2. The Art Centre must pay interest on late Artist's Payments on the basis stated in Schedule 1.
7. Goods and Services Tax
7.1. The parties agree that all amounts payable under this agreement are exclusive of Goods and Services Tax (GST). 
7.2. If a party is liable to pay GST in respect of any good or service supplied under this agreement, that party will invoice the other party for the GST amount payable for the good or service and will ensure that the invoice is a GST compliant invoice. 
7.3. The party who receives the GST compliant invoice must pay the amount of GST invoiced at the same time as the amount payable under this agreement.
8. Inspection of books
8.1. The Art Centre must maintain accurate books and records in relation to Sales of Artwork and any consignment arrangements in relation to Artwork. 
8.2. Within 14 calendar days of the Artist's request, the Art Centre will make all books and records available to the Artist or the Artist's authorised representative during the normal business hours of the Art Centre. If any discrepancy is established in favour of the Artist upon examination of the books and records, the Art Centre must pay the Artist the costs of the examination and the deficit amount within 14 calendar days.
9. Title and Intellectual Property
9.1. The Artist owns all Intellectual Property in the Artworks.
9.2. The Art Centre will manage the Artist's Intellectual Property on behalf of the Artist as specified in Schedule 1.
10. Contact details of purchasers
10.1. To the extent allowed by law, at the time of selling Artwork, the Art Centre must use all reasonable efforts to obtain and record the contact details of the purchaser and to provide these details to the Artist upon request by the Artist. 
11. Indigenous Culture and Intellectual Property (ICIP)
11.1. If an Artwork embodies traditional ritual Indigenous knowledge, the Art Centre must display the notice set out in Schedule 1 in a reasonably prominent position with the Artwork.
12. Good faith and no conflict
12.1. Each party must act reasonably and in good faith in all dealings with the other party and must avoid any conflict of interest between its own interests and the interests of the other party. 
13. Termination
13.1. Either party may terminate this agreement without the need to give any reasons by giving the other party 3 months written notice that the agreement is to be terminated.
13.2. If a party commits a breach of this agreement, the other party must notify the party in breach of the breach in writing. The party in breach must remedy the breach within 28 calendar days of the notice (Notice Period). If the breach is not remedied at the expiry of the Notice Period, the party who gave the notice may terminate this agreement immediately by written notice. If an exhibition of any Artwork commences during the Notice Period, termination will take effect from the date of the close of the exhibition.
13.3. The agreement automatically ends:
a upon the death of the Artist;
b if the Art Centre becomes insolvent, is declared bankrupt, has a liquidator appointed or goes into administration, voluntary or otherwise.
13.4. Upon the death of the Artist, all unsold Artwork held by the Art Centre must immediately be withdrawn from sale and stored securely pending consultation with the Artist's family as to the appropriate time when the Artworks may be offered for sale again. 
13.5. Subject to clause 13.4, upon termination or expiry of this agreement:
a the Art Centre may exhibit and sell the Artwork in its possession, including through any Other Gallery, and retain its Commission; 
b all Artist's Payments and other moneys due to the Artist must be paid as soon as possible to the Artist, the Executor of the Artist's Estate, the Public Trustee or the Artist's beneficiaries as appropriate; and
c all rights granted by the Artist to the Art Centre under this agreement otherwise immediately revert to the Artist.
14. Disputes
14.1. If a dispute or disagreement arises between the parties in connection with this agreement (Dispute), neither party may start any litigation or arbitration in relation to the Dispute until it has complied with this clause.
14.2. If a party believes a Dispute has arisen, it must notify the other party in writing about the Dispute. The parties should meet within 28 calendar days after receipt of the notice of dispute and hold good faith discussions to attempt to resolve the Dispute.
14.3. If the Dispute is not resolved within 21 calendar days after meeting to attempt to resolve the dispute, the parties agree to submit the dispute to mediation according to the Arts Law Centre Mediation guidelines current at that time (Guidelines). These guidelines are part of this agreement.
14.4. If the parties are unable to resolve the Dispute within 21 calendar days of commencing mediation or such later time as may be agreed during the mediation, either party may refer the matter to arbitration or commence litigation.
14.5. The parties must continue to perform their respective obligations under this agreement despite the existence of a Dispute.
15. General provisions
15.1. The parties acknowledge that the Art Centre becomes the agent of the Artist for the Term as a result of this agreement in respect of Artwork provided to the Art Centre under this agreement. 
15.2. A notice required to be given under this agreement may be delivered by hand, or sent by pre-paid post or fax to the address of the party indicated at the top of this agreement. Notices are taken to have been served when received, or within 7 business days of having been sent, whichever occurs first.
15.3. Neither party may assign, subcontract, novate or otherwise divest this agreement or any of the rights or obligations under this agreement without the other party's prior written consent. This consent must not be unreasonably withheld. 
15.4. Subject to clause 15.6, this agreement contains the entire agreement of the parties regarding its subject matter. Any previous understanding, agreement, representation or warranty relating to that subject matter is replaced by this agreement and has no further effect.
15.5. Nothing in this agreement transfers or excludes any applicable cultural rights in favour of Australian Indigenous people that may be implemented under Australian law.
15.6. This agreement may only be modified by a written amendment signed by the parties.
15.7. Invalidity of any clause of this agreement will not affect the validity of any other clause except to the extent made necessary by the invalidity.
15.8. This agreement is governed by the law in force in the jurisdiction specified in Schedule 1. The parties submit to the jurisdiction of the courts of that State and any court competent to hear appeals from those courts.


SCHEDULE 1
Principal Terms

ART CENTRE([NAME, ABN]( of ([ADDRESS, TELEPHONE, FAX](
ARTIST([NAME, ABN]( of ([ADDRESS, TELEPHONE, FAX](




ARTWORKIf the relationship is exclusive Artwork means any artistic works including works of artistic craftsmanship created by the Artist during the term of this agreement.
If the relationship is non-exclusive Artwork means any artistic works including works of artistic craftsmanship created by the Artist during the term of this
and provided to the Art Centre.
( [DELETE THE FOLLOWING TEXT IF THERE ARE NO EXISTING WORKS] For both exclusive and non-exclusive relationships Artwork includes the artistic works of the Artist listed in Schedule 2.(

ART CENTRE COMMISSION([NUMBER]( % of the payment received by the Art Centre from the purchaser in a Sale of an Artwork exclusive of any GST
([OPTIONAL: DELETE IF YOU DO NOT USE]( Where Artworks are sold by any Other Gallery on a consignment basis, the Art Centre's Commission is reduced to ([NUMBER](%ARTIST'S PAYMENTThe payment received by the Art Centre from a Sale of Artwork exclusive of any GST less the Art Centre's Commission and any other gallery's commissionTERMThis agreement commences on the date on which the last party signs the agreement and continues until terminated in accordance with clause 13.RELATIONSHIP([exclusive/non-exclusive](OTHER GALLERY COMMISSION([NUMBER]( % Or such other amount as is agreed by the artist in writing

TIME FOR ARTIST'S PAYMENTNo later than ([NUMBER]( calendar days after the Sale by the Art Centre or the receipt of payment by the Art Centre from any Other Gallery or as otherwise agreed with the ArtistINTEREST ON LATE PAYMENTS([NUMBER](% p.a. payable on demand and accruing daily from (and including) the date any unpaid amount is due until the amount is paid in fullINTELLECTUAL PROPERTY1. The Artist agrees that the Art Centre may register the Artist with a copyright collecting society such as Viscopy and/or Copyright Agency Limited. Within 28 calendar days of receiving any royalties under such an arrangement, the Art Centre must pay those royalties to the Artist by cheque or any other method notified by the Artist. 
2. During the Term, the Artist grants the Art Centre the non-exclusive right to photograph the Artist and the Artwork (Photos) or otherwise copy or reproduce or publish the Artwork or the Photos in any material form for promotional material or use in any promotional event to promote the Art Centre, the Artist or the Artwork including but not limited to any use in connection with the promotion of any exhibitions at which the Artwork is displayed or offered for Sale.
3. The Art Centre may sub-license the rights granted to it in paragraph 2. The Art Centre acknowledges that the Art Centre has no other present or future interest in the Artist's Intellectual Property.
4. The Art Centre must display a copyright notice that includes the Artist's name, the copyright symbol and the year that the Artwork was created:
a) Accompanying all reproductions of Artworks; and
b) on or adjacent to each Artwork on display.
5. During the Term, the Art Centre must comply with the Artist's reasonable requests and directions regarding the use of the Artist's Intellectual Property.
6. The Art Centre must not infringe, or permit others to infringe, the Artist's Intellectual Property, and will use all reasonable efforts to prevent any other person infringing those rights.
7. Without limiting the Artist's moral rights under the Copyright Act 1968 (Cth), the Art Centre must not, and must use all reasonable efforts not to let any other person or organisation destroy, damage, or alter any Artwork.


ICIP NOTICEThis artwork embodies traditional ritual knowledge of the ([NAME]( Community. It was created with the consent of the custodians of the Community. Dealing with any part of this artwork for any purpose that has not been authorised by the custodians is a serious breach of the customary laws of the ([NAME]( Community. For enquiries regarding permitted use of this artwork, contact ([NAME](.GOVERNING LAW([STATE OR TERRITORY OF RESIDENCE OF THE ARTIST](.
SCHEDULE 2
Artist's Artworks

TitleMediumSizeRetail valueCatalogue No


EXECUTED AS AN AGREEMENT:

Signed by the Artist:
Signature:
Name (PRINT):
Date:

Signed by an authorised Art Centre representative:
Signature:
Name (PRINT):
Date:

1
Artist and Art Centre Agreement		  (c) Arts Law Centre of Australia 2008

