







MURDOCH WEBSTER TECHNOLOGY GROUP PTY LTD
ABN OF 72 941 863 780
OF
LEVEL 1A, 18-24 RICKETTS ROAD
MOUNT WAVERLEY VIC 3149




[INSERT COMPANY NAME]
Of










___________________________________________________________________ 
AGREEMENT FOR THE PROVISION OF PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 
___________________________________________________________________

























THIS AGREEMENT is made 
BETWEEN MURDOCH WEBSTER TECHNOLOGY GROUP PTY LTD ABN 72 941 863 780 of Level 1a, 18-24 Ricketts Road. Mount Waverley Vic 3149 ("MWTG")

AND 

[INSERT COMPANY DETAILS] ACN [INSERT ACN] of [INSERT COMPANY ADDRESS} ("Client"). 

RECITALS
A MWTG is a consulting company that supplies professional services to clients.
B MWTG has been requested by the Client to provide professional services.
C MWTG has agreed to provide professional services to the Client on the terms and conditions set out in this document.
IT IS AGREED
1 INTERPRETATION
1.1 Definitions 
In this document, defined terms have the meaning given to them in Schedule 2 of this Agreement.

1.2 MWTG to Provide Professional Service
MWTG agrees to provide the Professional Service to the Client during the Service Period at the Location in accordance with the terms of this document.

2 OBLIGATIONS OF MWTG
2.1 MWTG agrees to use its best endeavours to ensure that:
(a) the Consultants are duly qualified and licensed (if applicable) to perform said tasks;
(b) the Consultants will comply with all reasonable instructions of the Client in performing the Service;
(c) the Consultants will comply with the policies of the Client in operation at the Location from time to time including but not limited to policies and guidelines relating to occupational health and safety, sexual harassment, equal opportunity and training and drug and alcohol use and any other relevant directions or regulations of the Client.
2.2 MWTG will use its best efforts to ensure that the Professional Service is performed but does not represent or guarantee a certain outcome, nor make any warranties or representations regarding the Service.
3 OBLIGATIONS OF THE CLIENT
The Client undertakes to do the following:

(a) provide a safe place of work for the Consultants to perform the Professional Service;
(b) use its best efforts to ensure that the Consultants are not injured and does not suffer damage during the performance of the Service;
(c) comply with its internal policies, regulations and training requirements with respect to, but not limited to occupational health and safety, sexual harassment and equal opportunity and in relation to the performance of the Service by the Consultants;
(d) advise MWTG if the Consultant suffers an injury or is involved in a sexual harassment or discrimination claim in the performance of the Service at the Location, and
(e) to not incur any liability on behalf of MWTG or sub contract or assign the performance of its obligations under this document without the prior written consent of MWTG, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld
(f) to pay the Fee and Approved Expenses when invoiced and due. 
4 VARIATION OF SERVICES AND LOCATION
4.1 If the Client wishes to have a Consultant replaced by another Consultant, it must advise MWTG of such request and MWTG will use its best efforts to replace the Consultant with a suitable qualified replacement.
4.2 If the Client wishes to vary the Service, the Client is to make a written request to MWTG seeking its agreement to the variation of the Professional Service.
4.3 MWTG and the Client shall conduct meetings at times mutually agreed upon to assess the progress of the commercial cooperation between the parties as outlined in this Agreement.
5 PAYMENT OF FEE FOR PROFESSIONAL SERVICE
5.1	Fixed Price Arrangement:

(a) The Client and MWTG may agree on a Fixed Price Arrangement, in which case the Fixed Price payable by the Client upon invoice from MWTG is stated in Item 8b of Schedule 1.
5.2	Per Diem Billing:
(b) Alternatively, the Client is to pay a Fee to MWTG as stated in Item 8a of the Schedule according to the number of days worked by the Consultant for the Client in the performance of the Service. 
(c) The Consultant is required to record the number of hours worked in the performance of the Service for the Client on a timesheet.
(d) At the conclusion of each week the Consultant is to provide their time sheet to the Client.  The Client is required to confirm that the number of hours recorded were the hours worked by the Consultant in the performance of the Service.
(e) The Client is to pay MWTG the Fee which is the amount stated in the invoice in accordance with the terms of the relevant invoice.
(f) In the event that MWTG is liable to the Client for the payment of any sums of money, the Client is to provide a statement of the moneys owing to them, and, upon acceptance thereof by MWTG, MWTG may deduct that amount from the amount stated in the invoice provided in accordance with this Agreement.
6 GOODS AND SERVICES TAX
6.1 Terms used in this clause have the meanings given to them in the A New Tax System (Goods and Service Tax) Act 1999 or the Trade Practices Act 1974, as appropriate.
6.2 Unless otherwise expressly stated, all prices or other sums payable or consideration to be provided under or in accordance with this document are exclusive of GST.
6.3 If GST is imposed on any supply made under or in accordance with this document, the recipient of the taxable supply must pay to the supplier an additional amount equal to the GST payable on or for the taxable supply subject to the recipient receiving a valid tax invoice in respect of the supply at or before the time of payment.  Payment of the additional amount will be made at the same time as payment for the taxable supply is required to be made in accordance with this document.
6.4 If GST is imposed on any Supply made pursuant to this Agreement, then the Client shall pay any GST imposed in respect of such Supply (in addition to any Fees or other costs or expenses payable in respect of that Supply).
6.5 If the Fees are expressly stated to be inclusive of GST and any applicable law increases or decreases, the rate of GST will be increased or decreased proportionately. 
6.6 If any amount payable by the Client is calculated by reference to any cost, expense or liability ('Cost') incurred by any person including MWTG, then such Cost, shall be the Cost actually incurred less the amount of any input tax credits which that party is entitled to claim in respect of that Cost. 
6.7 MWTG shall issue a tax invoice in accordance with the GST law. 

7 CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION
(a) During the Service Period, the Consultant will have access to:
(i) trade secrets and Confidential Information, including information about the business of the Client and its client and trade connections; and
(ii) Intellectual Property, including copyright materials.
(b) MWTG will use reasonable efforts to ensure that:
(i) the Consultant keeps confidential all Confidential Information;
(ii) the Consultant does not disclose any Confidential Information to any person except:
(A) as required by law;
(B) with the prior written consent of the Client; or
(C) to the Client's agents, employees or advisers in the proper performance of the Service by the Consultant.
(iii) the Consultant does not use any Confidential Information for the benefit of any person except the Client or any Related Body Corporate;
(iv) the Consultant maintains proper and secure custody of all Confidential Information and will use its best endeavours to prevent the use or disclosure of the Confidential Information by third parties.
(c) MWTG acknowledges that the Client is the sole owner of any rights in the Intellectual Property created, conceived developed or made by the Consultant in the performance of the Service.
(d) MWTG and the Client agree that, notwithstanding the terms of this document, the responsibility for the protection of the Client's Confidential Information and Intellectual Property lies solely with the Client;
(e) MWTG is not liable for any loss, liability, claim or expense arising from or related to:

i) the Client's Confidential Information or Intellectual Property; or

ii) the failure by the Client or MWTG to execute an agreement to protect the Client's Confidential Information and Intellectual Property.


8 INDEMNITIES
8.1 Indemnities
The Client agrees to indemnify MWTG in respect of any losses, expenses, actions, claims or liabilities arising from or related to the following:

(a) a breach by the Client of any of its obligations under this document;
(b) any act or omission of the Client or its employees, agents or servants including any act or omission that may contravene the provisions of any equal opportunity legislation;
(c) the failure or alleged failure of a Consultant duly to perform the Service;
(d) personal injury or death of a Consultant or any other person whatsoever or howsoever arising from or related to the performance by a Consultant of the Service;
(e) damage to any property, including the property of any third person, arising from or related to the performance by a Consultant of the Service; and
(f) any statutory charges, levies and taxes for which MWTG may become liable in respect of performing its obligations under this document by reason of such statutory charges, levies or taxes being introduced after the Commencement Date.
9 CONSULTING MANAGEMENT
An MWTG Consulting Manager will be the key contact for the delivery and quality of the Professional Service provided and will be listed on Schedule One, along with their contact details.

10 RECRUITMENT OF PERSONNEL
The Client acknowledges that MWTG has expended considerable resources in locating, recruiting, training and managing the Consultant, who is in effect an employee of MWTG or is in a contractual relationship with MWTG. Therefore, if a Consultant is offered a permanent position with the Client or one of the Client's related entities, the Client shall pay to MWTG a fee equal to 12 months of the offered salary of the Consultant.  The offer must be communicated to the Consulting Manager named in Schedule One.

11 MISCELLANEOUS 
11.1 Amendment
This document may be varied or replaced only by a document duly executed by the parties.

11.2 Governing law and jurisdiction
(a) This document is governed by and is to be construed in accordance with the law of the relevant jurisdiction prescribed in item 9 of Schedule 1.
(b) Each party irrevocably and unconditionally submits to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of the courts of the relevant jurisdiction and any courts which have jurisdiction to hear appeals from any of those courts and waives any right to object to any proceedings being brought in those courts.
11.3 Counterparts
This document may consist of a number of counterparts and if so the counterparts taken together constitute one and the same instrument.

11.4 Further assurance
Each party shall promptly execute all documents and do all things that any other party from time to time reasonably requires of it to effect, perfect or complete the provisions of this document and any transaction contemplated by it.

11.5 Assignment
A party shall not dispose of or encumber any right under this document without the prior written consent of the other party.

11.6 Effect of execution
This document is binding on a party to it even if it is not executed by any other person named as a party.

11.7 Entire understanding
(a) This document embodies the entire understanding and agreement between the parties as to the subject matter of this document.
(b) All previous negotiations, understandings, representations, warranties, memoranda or commitments in relation to, or in any way affecting, the subject matter of this document are merged in and superseded by this document and shall be of no force or effect whatever and no party shall be liable to any other party in respect of those matters.
(c) No oral explanation or information provided by any party to another shall:
(i) affect the meaning or interpretation of this document, or
(ii) constitute any collateral agreement, warranty or understanding between any of the parties.
11.8	Liability
	Notwithstanding anything else in this document, the parties agree that any and all liability under this Agreement (whether pursuant to indemnification or otherwise) shall not exceed AUD $2.2million. MWTG will not be liable to the other party in any circumstances for any indirect, economic, special or consequential loss or damage, including but not limited to loss of revenue, loss of production or loss of profits.

12.	TERMINATION

12.1.	Either party may terminate this Agreement:

(a) if the other party commits a breach of this Agreement and fails to remedy the breach within 20 business days of being given notice of such breach; or
(b) If the other party commits an act of insolvency; or
(c) By giving 30 days notice in writing to the other party

12.2	On termination of this agreement:

(a) the parties shall remain liable for the performance of all obligations or breaches of this agreement which have accrued or occurred up to and including the date of termination; and 

(b) the Client shall pay to MWTG all Fees and other charges which have accrued due up to and including the date of termination, (including any charges which may arise as a consequence of such termination).

12.3	Termination of this agreement shall not release any party from its obligation to indemnify the other party in accordance with the terms of this agreement, in relation to any matter occurring up to and including the date of termination of this agreement, or from any obligation of confidentiality contained in this agreement, (which obligation shall continue after such termination).

EXECUTED as an agreement.

This agreement is governed by the laws of [INSERT RELEVANT JURISDICTION].  The parties each submit to the exclusive jurisdiction of the courts of that state and the courts of appeal from them.


THE COMMON SEAL of MWTG PTY LTD, ABN 72 941 863 780  is affixed in accordance with its articles of association in the presence of:)
)
)
)


................................................................
Secretary/Director

................................................................
Name of Secretary/Director (print)


................................................................
Director

................................................................
Name of Director (print)



EXECUTED BY THE CLIENT

THE COMMON SEAL of CLIENT


 is affixed in accordance with its articles of association in the presence of:)
)
)
)


................................................................
Secretary/Director

................................................................
Name of Secretary/Director (print)


................................................................
Director

................................................................
Name of Director (print)


SCHEDULE ONE


Item 1 - Client


Item 2 - Commencement Date


Item 3 - Termination Date



Item 4 - Service 



Item 5 - Consultants





Item 6   Consulting Manager


Item 7 - Location


Item 8a - Fee - Per Diem



Item 8b - Fixed Price Arrangement Fee





Schedule 2

11.8 Definitions 
In this document:

"Agreement" means this agreement;

"Approved Expenses" means any and all expenses and costs associated with the provision of the Service, including, but not limited to costs associated with the termination of Consultants upon the Client's requests;

"Client" means The party to whom the Service identified in this Agreement is to be provided;

"Commencement Date" means the date in item 2 of the Schedule;

"Consultant(s)" means the individual or individuals whose names appear in item 5 of the Schedule as consultant(s) provided by MWTG to the Client;

"Fee" means the amount to be paid to MWTG by the Client for the provision of the Service;

"Location" means the place where the Consultant is required to perform the Service required by the Client as prescribed in item 7 of the Schedule;

"Public Holiday" means each day declared to be a public holiday as gazetted in the relevant jurisdiction prescribed in item 9 of the Schedule;

"Related Body Corporate" has the same meaning as under the Corporations Law;

"Schedule One" means a schedule (as attached: headed "Schedule One") that is to be read in conjunction with this Agreement. It is MWTG and the Client's intention for numerous services (as agreed) to be covered by the terms and conditions of this Agreement (and its associated Schedules).  To prevent duplication of the underpinning Agreement, the parties agree that a number of "Schedules One" can be incorporated into the commercial arrangement in accordance with the terms and conditions contained in the Agreement. Each Schedule One is to be read in conjunction with (and underpinned by) the Agreement;

"Service" means the service in item 4 of the Schedule;

"Service Period" means the period between and inclusive of the Commencement Date and the Termination Date;

"Termination Date" means the date in item 3 of the Schedule.

9

