STUDENT PROJECT AGREEMENT

THIS AGREEMENT is made on 	    2007.
BETWEEN:
The University of Melbourne [ABN 84 002 705 224] of Parkville, Victoria 3010, 
("the University")
And
Organisation Name [ABN Insert ABN] of Address
("Abbreviation").
RECITALS
A.	The University, through its Department of Electrical and Electronic Engineering, has a research interest in Insert Project Code & Title.
B.	Abbreviation is Insert a 1-line explanation of who the other party are and what they do.
C.	The Parties have decided to collaborate on the following terms and conditions in order to facilitate the undertaking of research projects by students of the University.

IT IS AGREED AS FOLLOWS
1.	DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATION
1.1	Definitions
Background Intellectual Property means Intellectual Property owned or controlled by a Party, including but not limited to Intellectual Property developed prior to or independently of this Agreement, which the Party determines, in its sole discretion, to make available for the carrying out of Research.
	Business Day means a weekday on which banks are open in Melbourne.
	Commencement Date means the date specified in Item 1 of the Schedule.
	Confidential Information means and includes all unpatented inventions, ideas, know-how, concepts, trade secrets, processes, techniques, software, products and any and all other intellectual property, financial and business information and all other commercially valuable information of the Disclosing Party which the Disclosing Party regards as confidential to it and all copies, notes and records and all related information generated by the Receiving Party based on or arising out of any such disclosure.
	Disclosing Party means the Party that is disclosing Confidential Information.
Improvement means any improvement, advancement, modification, adaptation or the like.
Intellectual Property means all rights resulting from intellectual activity whether capable of protection by statute, common law or in equity and including copyright, discoveries, inventions, patent rights, registered and unregistered trade marks, design rights, circuit layouts and plant varieties and all rights and interests of a like nature, together with any documentation relating to such rights and interests.
Notice has the meaning given in Clause 9.
Parties means the parties to this Agreement and their respective successors and permitted assigns, and "Party" means either one of them.
	Personnel of a party means that party's employees, agents, students, contractors, consultants, directors, officers and sub-licensees (appointed pursuant to this Agreement).
		Program Intellectual Property or Program IP means the Intellectual Property which is created, developed or discovered as a result of conducting the Research.
	Product means any article or thing which incorporates all or any of the Program Intellectual Property.
	Receiving Party means the Party that is receiving Confidential Information.
Research means the research to be conducted by the Parties in accordance with this Agreement as described in Item 3 of the Schedule. 
	Term means the term specified in Item 2 of the Schedule.
2.	OBLIGATIONS OF THE PARTIES
2.1	The University agrees to conduct the Research in accordance with this Agreement.
2.2	The Parties will supply the Resources required to conduct the Research as set out in Items 4 and 5 of the Schedule.
3.	TERM
	The Parties agree that this Agreement shall commence on the Commencement Date and, unless extended or terminated earlier in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement, will remain in effect for the Term. 
4.	INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY
4.1	Background Intellectual Property
4.1.1 	Each Party acknowledges and agrees that it will not have any claim, ownership or interest in the other Party's Background Intellectual Property or Improvements in such Background Intellectual Property.
4.1.2	Each Party grants to the other Party a non-exclusive, royalty-free licence to use its Background Intellectual Property for the purpose of carrying out the Research.
4.2	Program IP
4.2.1	In consideration of the rights granted in this Agreement, it is agreed and acknowledged by the Parties that the University is and will be at all times the owner of the Program IP.
4.2.2	The University grants to Abbreviation a non-exclusive, royalty free, worldwide, perpetual licence to use the Program IP for the purpose of internal research and education.
4.3	Methods and Techniques
4.3.1	Abbreviation acknowledges that the University shall own all rights and interests any methods and techniques, to the extent such methods and techniques do not form not part of Background Intellectual Property or Improvements, which are used in connection with the Research.
5.	WARRANTY
5.1	University Warrants 
5.1.1	The University does not warrant that the Program Intellectual Property or Research or any part thereof is or will be valid or of any commercial value. All such warranties, including those of merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose are excluded.
5.1.2	The University does not warrant that the manufacture, sale, marketing or other dealing or use of the Program Intellectual Property or any products derived from the Research are not or will not be an infringement of the rights of third parties.
5.2	Abbreviation Warrants 
 Abbreviation warrants that:
5.2.1	it will not use the name of the University in any manner unless specifically approved by the University, in writing.
5.2.2	it will not use, nor allow, explicitly or implicitly, the use by third parties, of the University of Melbourne name and logo on any Products.
5.2.3	it will do all things reasonably within its capacity to ensure that the University is not exposed to any liabilities that might arise directly or indirectly as a consequence of using the Research, Program Intellectual Property or any Products.
6.	RELEASE AND INDEMNITY
6.1	Release and Indemnity 
The Parties shall at all times indemnify and hold harmless each other and their respective Personnel from and against any loss (including legal costs and expenses), or liability, which is incurred or suffered by the other Party or their respective Personnel arising from any claim, suit, demand, action or proceeding where such loss or liability was directly caused by the unlawful or negligent act or omission of the other Party or its Personnel in connection with this Agreement.
6.2	Contribution
A Party's liability to indemnify the other under this Clause shall be reduced proportionally to the extent that any unlawful or negligent act or omission of the other Party or its Personnel contributed to the loss or liability.
6.3	Survival of Indemnity
The indemnity in this Clause shall survive the expiration or termination of this Agreement.
7.	CONFIDENTIALITY
7.1	Exchange of Confidential Information
The Parties intend to exchange Confidential Information relating to the Research. 
7.2	Obligations of Confidentiality
       The Receiving Party must:
7.2.1	keep all Confidential Information of the Disclosing Party confidential unless strictly required otherwise by law;
7.2.2	limit access to those of its employees or agents reasonably requiring the Confidential Information on a strictly need to know basis for the Research;
7.2.3	not use Confidential Information in any way that would be harmful to the best interests of the Disclosing Party;
7.2.4	not use any Confidential Information in any way other than for the Research or as otherwise contemplated by this Agreement without the prior written permission of the Disclosing Party;
7.2.5	not copy, in whole or in part, any Confidential Information without the prior written permission of the Disclosing Party; and
7.2.6	ensure that all Personnel to whom Confidential Information is disclosed are legally bound under the terms and conditions of their employment agreements or otherwise to keep the Confidential Information confidential and not to use the Confidential Information except for the Research.
7.3	Not Confidential Information
Confidential Information excludes, or as the case requires, ceases to include information, which is, or becomes:
(a) available to the public at the date of its disclosure to the Receiving Party;
(b) at the date of its disclosure to the Receiving Party, already properly in the possession of the Receiving Party in written form otherwise than by prior confidential disclosure from the Disclosing Party;
(c) after the date of its disclosure to the Receiving Party, available to the public from sources other than the Receiving Party;
(d) after the date of its disclosure to the Receiving Party, properly available to the Receiving Party from a third party having no obligation of confidentiality to the Disclosing Party;
(e) demonstrated by the Receiving Party to be independently developed by an employee or agent of the Receiving Party having no knowledge of such information the subject of the disclosure;
8.	PUBLICATION 
8.1	Publication of Academic Work
Where a student or a member of staff of the University are involved in the Research, the following provisions apply:
(a)	subject to this sub-clause 8.1, a student or member of staff of the University may publish the results of any work carried out by that student or staff member;
(b)	Abbreviation will not have editorial rights over the content of the written work of the student or staff member;
(c)	the University shall not without the prior written consent of Abbreviation publish material that contains Abbreviation's Confidential Information.
9.	NOTICES
Any notice, demand, consent or other communication ("Notice") given or made under this Agreement:
	(a)	must be in writing and signed by a person duly authorised by the sender;
	(b)	must either be delivered to the intended recipient by post or by hand or fax to the address or fax number below or the address or fax number last notified by the intended recipient to the sender:
		(i)	to The University:
					The University of Melbourne
					Victoria 3010
		Attn:  Professor Frank P Larkins
		         Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Research)
		Fax No:	(03) 9347 6883

(i) to Abbreviation:

		Attn:   
		Fax No:	
	(c)	will be taken to be duly given or made:
		(i)	in the case of delivery in person, when delivered;
		(ii)	in the case of delivery by post, two Business Days after the date of posting; and
		(iii)	in the case of fax, on receipt by the sender of a transmission control report from the despatching machine,
		but if the result is that a Notice would be taken to be given or made on a day which is not a Business Day, or is later than 4.00pm (local time), it will be taken to have been duly given or made on the next Business Day.
10.	DISPUTE RESOLUTION
10.1	Parties to negotiate in good faith
	If any dispute or difference arises in connection with this Agreement, then the Parties shall negotiate in good faith, using their best endeavours to resolve the dispute or difference.
11.	RELATIONSHIP OF PARTIES
The Parties are independent contracting parties, and nothing in this Agreement shall make any Party the agent or legal representative of the other for any purpose whatsoever, nor does it grant either Party any authority to assume or to create any obligation on behalf of or in the name of the other.
12.	ENTIRE AGREEMENT
	This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement of the Parties with respect to its subject matter and supersedes all prior oral or written representations and agreements.
13.	SEVERABILITY
	If any provision of this Agreement is invalid or unenforceable, such provision(s) shall be deemed deleted but only to the extent necessary and the remaining provisions of this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect.
14.	NO IMPLIED WAIVER
	A waiver of either Party of a breach of any provision of this Agreement does not constitute a waiver of any succeeding breach of the same or any other provision.
15.	AMENDMENT
	Any modification, alteration, change or variation of any term and condition of this Agreement shall be made in writing.
16.	GOVERNING LAW AND JURISDICTION
	This Agreement is governed by the laws of the State of Victoria and the Commonwealth of Australia.  Each Party submits to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of courts there in connection with matters concerning this Agreement.

EXECUTED in Melbourne by the Parties on the day and year first above mentioned.

SIGNED FOR AND ON BEHALF OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MELBOURNE   
[ABN 84 002 705 224] by

in the presence of:


..........................................................
Witness


..........................................................
Print Name



)
)   ......................................................
)                             Signature

    .......................................................
         Print Name

SIGNED FOR AND ON BEHALF OF Organisation Name 
[Insert ABN]by

in the presence of:


..............................................................
Witness


..............................................................
Print Name





)
)  ........................................................
)                    Signature

   ........................................................
Print Name


SCHEDULE


Item 1: Commencement Date 
1st January 2007

Item 2: Term
One year, ending on 31st December 2007

Item 3: Research to be Conducted
Insert Project Description

Item 4: Resources to be supplied by the University:
Supervision of student researchers by appropriate staff
Laboratory facilities and associated technical support
Academic support
Access to equipment and budgetary resources

Item 5: Resources to be supplied by Insert Abbreviation:
Access to staff as appropriate
Advice and guidance in relation to 'real-world' applications as appropriate



2


