

PLANNING AND ENVIRONMENT ACT 1987




SECTION 173 AGREEMENT




Between


BASS COAST SHIRE COUNCIL


 and 


[INSERT NAME/S] 





in relation to



Land at [Insert]



THIS AGREEMENT is made the		day of				200  


BETWEEN

1. BASS COAST SHIRE COUNCIL of 76 McBride Avenue, Wonthaggi Victoria (hereinafter called "the Responsible Authority") and

2. [Insert name/s] of [insert address] (hereinafter called "the Owner"):


WHEREAS:

A.	The Owner is the owner and registered by the Registrar of Titles as the proprietor of an estate in fee simple in the land at [insert street address], being Lot X on Plan of Subdivision XXX and more particularly described in Certificate of Title Volume XXX Folio XXX (hereinafter called "the subject land").

B.	The Responsible Authority is responsible for the administration and enforcement of the Bass Coast Planning Scheme (hereinafter called "the Planning Scheme") pursuant to the provisions of the Planning and Environment Act 1987 (hereinafter called "the Act").

C.	On [insert date], the Responsible Authority issued Planning Permit Number XXX allowing the [insert use and/or development] of [insert particulars] (hereinafter called "the Planning Permit"). 

D.	Condition [insert number] of the Planning Permit requires the Owner to enter into this Agreement to provide for the matters set out in that Condition.  

E. The Responsible Authority and the Owner have agreed that, without restricting or limiting their respective powers to enter into this Agreement, and insofar as it can be so treated, this Agreement is an agreement entered into pursuant to Section 173 of the Act.

F. The Responsible Authority and the Owner have entered into this Agreement in order to achieve or advance the objectives of planning in Victoria or the objectives of the Planning Scheme.

IT IS AGREED AS FOLLOWS:

Definitions 

1.	In this Agreement unless inconsistent with the context or subject matter:

1.1	"Act" means the Planning and Environment Act 1987;

1.2	"Agreement" means this Agreement and any agreement executed by the parties varying or expressed to be supplemental to this Agreement;

1.3	"Subject land" means the land described in Recital A;

1.4	"Owner" means the owner for the time being of the land and the person or persons entitled from time to time to be registered by the Registrar of Titles as the proprietor of an estate in fee simple in the land or any part thereof, and includes a Mortgagee in possession;

1.5	"Planning Permit" mean the planning permit referred to in Recital C, including any plans endorsed under the planning permit;

1.6	"Planning Scheme" means the Bass Coast Planning Scheme and any successor instrument or other planning scheme which applies to the subject land;

1.7	"Responsible Authority" means Bass Coast Shire Council or its successor as the authority responsible for administering and enforcing the Planning Scheme and includes its agents, officers, employees, servants, workers and contractors; and

1.8	"Tribunal" means the Victorian Civil and Administrative Tribunal or any successor tribunal, court, institution or body.
Interpretation

2.	In this Agreement unless inconsistent with the context or subject matter:

2.1 The singular includes the plural and the plural includes the singular;

2.2 A reference to a gender includes a reference to each other gender;

2.3 A reference to a person includes a reference to a firm, corporation, association or other entity and their successors in law;

2.4 If a party consists of more than one person this Agreement binds them jointly and each of them severally;

2.5 A reference to a statute includes any statute amending, consolidating or replacing that statute and includes any subordinate instruments made under that statute;

2.6 The Recitals to this Agreement are and will be deemed to form part of this Agreement including any terms defined within the Recitals.

Specific Obligations of the Owner

3.	The Owner covenants with the Responsible Authority that:

3.1	[Insert specific covenants to be included in Agreement].

Further Obligations of the Owner

4.	The Owner further covenants that:

4.1 The Owner will not sell, transfer, dispose of, assign, mortgage or otherwise part with possession of the subject land or any part of it without first disclosing to its successors the existence and nature of this Agreement.

4.2 The Owner will do all that is necessary to enable the Responsible Authority to make an application to the Registrar of Titles to make a recording of this Agreement on the Certificate of Title to the subject land in accordance with Section 181 of the Act, including the signing of any further agreement, acknowledgment or other document.

4.3 The Owner shall immediately on demand pay the reasonable legal costs and fees incurred and incidental to the preparation and execution of this Agreement and the registration hereof pursuant to Section 181 of the Act, together with all costs of enforcing this Agreement if deemed necessary by the Responsible Authority. The Owner hereby agrees that any such costs are and remain a charge on the subject land until paid, and consents to the Responsible Authority registering a caveat on the Certificate of Title to the subject land in respect of any such costs and acknowledges that any such costs shall be capable of being recovered by the Responsible Authority in any court of competent jurisdiction as a civil debt recoverable.

4.4 That until such time as this Agreement is registered on the title to the subject land, the Owner shall ensure that successors in title will give effect to this Agreement, and do all acts and sign all documents which will require those successors to give effect to this Agreement, including executing a deed agreeing to be bound by the terms of this Agreement.

4.5 The Owner agrees to indemnify and keep indemnified the Responsible Authority from and against all costs, expenses, losses or damages that it may sustain, incur, suffer or be or become liable for or in respect of any suit, action, proceeding, judgment or claim brought by any person arising from or referable to this Agreement and/or any non-compliance with this Agreement.

4.6 The Owner agrees to allow the Responsible Authority to enter the subject land at any reasonable time to assess compliance with this Agreement.

Owner's Warranties and Acknowledgements

5. The Owner warrants that:

5.1 It is the registered proprietor (or entitled to be so) of the subject land;

5.2 There are no mortgages, liens, charges or other encumbrances affecting the subject land which are not disclosed by the usual searches;
5.3 If the subject land is affected by a mortgage, the Mortgagee of the subject land consents to the Owner entering into this Agreement and the Agreement being registered on the title to the subject land.

6. The Owner acknowledges that any obligations imposed on the Owner under this Agreement take effect as separate and several covenants which are annexed to the subject land and run at law and in equity with the land and every part thereof and bind the Owner, its successors, assigns and transferees, and the registered proprietor for the time being of the whole or any part of the subject land. 

Further assurance

7.	The parties to this Agreement must do or cause to be done all things that are reasonably necessary to give effect to this Agreement.

Default

8.	If the Owner defaults or fails to perform any of its obligations under this Agreement the Responsible Authority may, without prejudice to any other remedies, rectify and remedy such default and the cost of doing so shall be borne by the Owner. The Owner hereby consents to the Responsible Authority registering a caveat on the Certificate of Title to the subject land in respect of any such costs, and acknowledges that any such costs shall be capable of being recovered by the Responsible Authority in any court of competent jurisdiction as a civil debt recoverable.

No waiver

9.	Any time or other indulgence granted by the Responsible Authority to the Owner or any variation of the terms and conditions of this Agreement or any judgment or order obtained by the Responsible Authority against the Owner will not in any way amount to a waiver of any of the rights or remedies of the Responsible Authority in relation to the terms of this Agreement.

No Fettering of Powers of Responsible Authority

10.	The Owner expressly acknowledges and agrees that nothing in this Agreement nor the performance by the Owner of any of its obligations under this Agreement does or will restrain, limit or otherwise fetter the exercise by the Responsible Authority of the powers, duties and discretions that the Responsible Authority has or may have (as planning authority, responsible authority or otherwise) under the Act or under the Planning Scheme to consider, approve, amend or to make any decision or impose any requirements or conditions in connection with the granting of any planning approval or certification relating to any use or development, or in relation to the commencement or initiation of any enforcement action or proceeding whatsoever.

Entire Agreement

11.	This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement between the parties in connection with its subject matter and supercedes all previous Agreements or understandings between the parties in connection with its subject matter.

Severability 

12.	If a court, arbitrator, tribunal or other competent authority determines that a word, phrase, sentence, paragraph or clause of this Agreement is unenforceable, illegal or void then it shall be severed and the other provisions of this Agreement shall remain operative and be of full force and effect.

Disputes	

13.	If there is a dispute between the parties concerning the interpretation or implementation of this Agreement, that dispute must be referred to the Tribunal for resolution to the extent permitted by the Act.

14. If there is a dispute concerning any matter which is not referable to the Tribunal under the Act, that dispute must be referred for arbitration by an Arbitrator agreed upon in writing by the parties, or, in the absence of such agreement the Chair of the Victorian Chapter of the Institute of Arbitrators Australia or his or her nominee, for arbitration.

15. The parties shall each be entitled to legal representation for the purposes of any proceedings or arbitration referred to clause 13 or 14 of this Agreement unless the Tribunal or arbitrator otherwise directs, and each party must bear its own costs.

Commencement of Agreement

16.	Unless otherwise provided in this Agreement, this Agreement shall commence on the date of this Agreement.

End of Agreement  [only if appropriate]

17.	Upon completion of the Owner's obligations under Clause X of this Agreement to the satisfaction of the Responsible Authority, the Responsible Authority shall consent to this Agreement ending and to the removal of the recording of the Agreement on the Certificate of Title to the land provided for in Clause 4.2 of this Agreement.

EXECUTED by the parties on the date set out at the commencement of this Agreement:



THE COMMON SEAL OF BASS COAST	)
SHIRE COUNCIL was affixed in the 	)
presence of:					)



.............................................
Chief Executive Officer




If an individual:

SIGNED, SEALED AND DELIVERED	)
by the said XXXXXX				)
in the presence of:				)


.............................................
Witness 




If a company with no common seal:


Executed by XXXXXXXXXX		)
PTY LTD by being signed by those 	)	
persons who are authorised to 		)
sign for the company:			)


.............................................		.............................................
Director					Secretary

.............................................		.............................................
Full Name					Full Name

.............................................		.............................................
Usual Address				Usual Address





