This Agreement is made betweenState of Queensland acting through the Department of Main Roads"the Principal"ofAddress

 ABNand"the Contractor"ofAddress

and"the Expert"ofAddress

Recitals
A.  The Principal and the Contractor have entered into a contract to construct Works described as follows: 
B.  The Expert has been appointed by agreement between the Principal and the Contractor to determine disputes or differences pursuant to the procedure described in Clause 47.3 of the General Conditions of Contract and the General Conditions - Expert Agreement, pages 3 and 4 of this form.C.  The Expert shall make its determination within the time period: 
D.								  The Expert remuneration shall be based on the following
"Basis of Expert's Remuneration"


THE PARTIES AGREE in the terms of the General Conditions - Expert Agreement.EXECUTED AS A DEEDFor the PrincipalSIGNED byName
a duly authorised delegate of THE DIRECTOR-GENERAL, DEPARTMENT OF MAIN ROADS  for and on behalf of THE STATE OF QUEENSLAND*.Signature
Date
Witnessed BySignature
Date

For the ContractorFixed in the presence of and signed by and on behalf of the Contractor byThe Company Seal
(where applicable)Name(s)

who certifies their authorisation to sign the Agreement.Signature
Date
Signature
Date
Witnessed bySignature
Date


For the ExpertSigned by and on behalf of the Expert byName(s)
who certifies their authorisation to sign the Agreement.Signature
Date
Signature
Date
Witnessed bySignature
Date
* these words applicable also to "the Contractor" when the Contractor is a Business Unit of the PrincipalThe Department of Main Roads collects personal information on this form so that you may agree expert determination.  The information on this form is accessible by authorised departmental officers and external personnel who are engaged to administer the Contract who will not disclose your personal details to a third party without your consent unless required to do so by law.
Expert Agreement
General Conditions

1. Interpretation
Words and phrases used in this Agreement, unless the contrary intention appears or are otherwise herein defined, shall have the same meaning as attributed to such words in the Contract. 
2. Decide on Disputes
The Expert is appointed to determine disputes or differences referred to the Expert in accordance with Clause 47.3 of the General Conditions of Contract.
3. Confirmation that Expert can Act
The Expert shall within five (5) days after receiving notice under Clause 47.2 of the General Conditions of Contract from the Superintendent of a dispute or difference advise the Superintendent whether the Expert is available to act in resolving that dispute or difference. 
4. Meeting
If the Expert advises the Superintendent that the Expert can act in resolving the dispute or difference the Expert shall within five (5) days of the Superintendent providing the Expert with the notice given by the dissatisfied party under Clause 47.2 of the General Conditions of the Contract, meet with the parties to determine a procedure to resolve the dispute or difference.
5. The Expert Released
The Expert shall not be liable to the parties or either of them or to any third party or stranger for anything done or omitted by the Expert pursuant to this Agreement and the parties release and indemnify the Expert from and against any claims for negligence, bias or other misconduct other than actual fraud.
6. Experts' Powers
The Expert will in discharging the Expert's function under this Agreement: 
(a)	act as an expert and not as an arbitrator;
(b)	proceed in such manner as the Expert thinks fit without being bound to observe the rules of natural justice or the rules of evidence;
(c)	take into consideration all documents, information and other written and oral material that the parties place before the Expert including documents, information and material relating to the facts in dispute and to arguments and submissions upon the matters in dispute;
(d)	not be expected or required to obtain or refer to any other documents, information or material but may do so if the Expert so desires;
(e)	make a decision, with reasons, in such form as the Expert considers appropriate stating the Expert's determination of the matters in dispute;
(f)	act with expedition with a view to making a decision within the time period agreed and stated in the Expert Agreement form.
7. Meet with Parties
The Expert may, if the Expert so desires, as a part of the procedure to be determined under Clause 4 of these Conditions, arrange to meet with the parties to discuss the dispute or difference and at and in connection with any such meeting :
(a)(1)		legal representation of either party shall be at the sole discretion of the Expert;
(b)			the parties agree to be bound by such procedural directions as may be given by the Expert both in preparation for and during the course of the meeting.
The parties agree that any such meeting or meetings shall not in any way be regarded as a formal hearing and should be at the sole discretion of the Expert. 
8. Decision Binding
Subject to the provisions of the Contract, the Expert's decision shall be final and binding between the parties to the dispute.
9. Remuneration
In consideration of the Expert performing the Expert's functions under this Agreement, the Contractor and the Principal shall in equal shares jointly pay to the Expert the amount as determined from the Basis of Expert's Remuneration or such other amount as is agreed between all parties to this Agreement.
10. Confidentiality
The Expert shall not, at any time, whether before or after the expiration or sooner determination of this Agreement, without the consent of the Principal and the Contractor, divulge, or suffer or permit the Expert's servants, consultants or agents to divulge, to any person any of the contents of the Contract or this Agreement or any other agreements collateral or supplemental thereto or any of the commercial bases thereof or any information relating to the negotiations concerning the same or any information which may have come to the Expert's knowledge in the course of such negotiations or otherwise concerning the operations, dealings, transactions, contracts, commercial or financial arrangements or affairs of the Principal and the Contractor as contemplated by the Contract. 
11. Nature of Expert's Role
The Expert shall be independent from the Principal and the Contractor.  Nothing in this Agreement shall be deemed to make the Expert an agent, employee or partner of the Contractor or the Principal. 
The Expert shall assume full responsibility and liability for the payment of all taxes due on moneys received by the Expert under this Agreement.
The Contractor and the Principal shall not make any deductions for taxes, insurance or other benefits from any moneys paid to the Expert under this Agreement.
12. Termination
This Agreement may be terminated by either the Principal or the Contractor by giving the other parties ten (10) days written notice in any of the following events:
(a)	the Expert being declared of unsound mind or mentally ill;
(b)	the Expert being declared bankrupt;
(c)	the Expert committing any proven act of dishonesty or, by wilful act or omission or by gross neglect, behaving in a fashion clearly prejudicial to the interests of the Contractor or the Principal or the work under the Contract; 
(d)	the Expert failing to observe and fulfill any of the substantive terms of this Agreement;
(e)	the Expert being prevented by prolonged illness or incapacity from performing the Expert's obligations under this Agreement.
This Agreement may be terminated by the Expert giving, the Principal and the Contractor 60 days written notice of the Expert's intention to terminate.
13. Notices
All notices to be given to the Expert hereunder shall be properly given if hand delivered to the Expert or if sent by certified mail or security post to the Expert's address shown in this Agreement or to such other address as the Expert may from time to time advise by notice in writing.
14. Governing Law(1)
This agreement shall be governed by and construed with reference to the laws applying to the Contract.

(1) Not applicable when the Contractor is a Business Unit of the Principal.
Expert Determination
Agreement

Job Number(s):

Expert Determination
Agreement

Job Number(s):

Page 2 of 4
C6030.RPC
March 03

Page 1 of 4
C6030.RPC
March 03

