





















PANEL AGREEMENT


FOR


THE PROVISION OF MINOR WORKS AND FIELD SERVICES 

PANEL AGREEMENT FOR THE PROVISION OF MINOR WORKS AND FIELD SERVICES
  
1.	OBJECTIVE AND SCOPE 

The Parties agree that:
(a) The Contractor is a member of Panel of Providers ("Panel") that has been established by the Principal to provide the Works as described in the Specification;
(b) The Principal may select any member of the Panel to provide the Works; and
(c) If selected by the Principal, the Contractor shall execute and complete the Works upon the terms and conditions of this Agreement and in accordance with any direction given by the Superintendent.

2.	DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATIONS

In this Agreement:
"Agreement" means the agreement between the Principal and the Contractor, and comprises of the documents listed in the "Schedule of Agreement Documents".
"Contractor" means the person, firm, partnership, company or other legal entity who as a party to this Agreement is bound to execute the service in accordance with this Agreement.
"Principal" means the person so described in the Annexure.
"Superintendent" means the person so described as such in the Annexure.
"Works" means the whole of the work and/or service to be executed in accordance with this Agreement, including variations provided for in the Agreement.

Should any ambiguity or discrepancy be discovered in any document under the Agreement, the Superintendent shall direct the Contractor and Principal as to the interpretation.

3.	SUPERINTENDENT

The Principal will appoint a Superintendent and any direction of the Superintendent pursuant to this Agreement shall be binding on the Contractor.  The Superintendent may appoint, in writing, a Superintendent's Representative to exercise any function of the Superintendent under the Agreement.

A direction may be given orally but the Superintendent shall as soon as practicable confirm it in writing.

4.	QUOTATIONS

The Superintendent may:
(a) request that all or any members of the Panel provide a quotation for the provision of the Works, notwithstanding that pre-agreed rates may form part of this Agreement;
(b) seek quotation from providers not on the Panel; and
(c) appoint new providers as members of the Panel.

The Principal is not obliged to engage the Contractor to provide any Works during the term of this Agreement.  If the Principal engages the Contractor to provide Works and does not seek a quotation, the Works shall be paid for at any pre-agreed rates forming part of this Agreement.

Notwithstanding any methodology of allocating work or ranking Panel members which has been specified in the Specification, the Principal may adjust the methodology or ranking as a consequence of the Contractor's  performance or availability to perform the Works.

5.	ASSIGNMENT AND SUBCONTRACTING

The Contractor shall not assign the Agreement or subcontract the whole or any part of the work under the Agreement without the prior written approval of the Superintendent. Subcontracting does not relieve the Contractor of its responsibility and liability under the Agreement.


6.	INSURANCE

The Contractor, before commencing work on the site, shall hold or effect a policy of insurance covering public liability to an amount of not less than the amount stated in the Annexure.

The policy shall be maintained for the term of this Agreement.  The Contractor shall, on request of the Superintendent, promptly produce evidence of the insurance required under this Clause.  If the Contractor does not provide satisfactory evidence of compliance, the Principal may effect the relevant insurances and any costs and expenses incurred by the Principal in doing so will be a debt due and payable from the Contractor to the Principal.  The Principal may withhold payment until evidence of compliance with the Contractor's obligations under this clause is produced by the Contractor.

7.	PROTECTION OF PERSONS AND PROPERTY

Unless directed otherwise by the Superintendent, the Contractor shall:
(a) provide all things and take all measures necessary to protect people and property in connection with the Works, including erection, maintenance and removal of barricades and signs where necessary for the safety and convenience of the public and others;
(b) avoid unnecessary interference with the passage of people and vehicles;
(c) prevent nuisance and unreasonable noise and disturbance; and
(d) be responsible for the care of the whole of the work under the Agreement from the commencement until the Works are completed and handed over to the Principal  and shall be liable for any loss or damage to the Works from any cause whatsoever except for loss or damage caused by any negligent act or omission or default of the Principal, Superintendent or the employees, agents, consultants or contractors of the Principal, and shall make good at its own cost any loss or damage for which the Contractor is responsible.

8.	MATERIALS AND QUALITY OF WORK

Unless otherwise specified, materials incorporated into the Works shall be new and suitable for the purpose and consistent with the nature and character of the Works.

Unless otherwise specified, construction methods and standards of finish shall be in accordance with relevant Australian Standards. All work shall be carried out by experienced and qualified persons in accordance with recognised methods.

9.	VARIATIONS

The Superintendent may direct the Contractor to vary the work under the Agreement or execute additional work. Unless the Superintendent and the Contractor agree on the price for a variation, the variation shall be valued or determined by the Superintendent using reasonable rates and prices.

10.	TERM

This Agreement shall commence on the date of execution of this Agreement and expire upon the Expiry Date as specified in the Annexure, unless terminated earlier in accordance with this Agreement.  The parties may extend the Agreement by mutual agreement.

11.	PAYMENT

The Principal shall pay the Contractor:
(a)	for Works for which the Principal accepted a lump sum, the lump sum; or
(b)	for Works for which the Principal accepted rates, the sum ascertained by multiplying the measured quantity of each item of work actually carried out under the Agreement by the rate accepted by the Principal for the item,
adjusted by any additions or deductions made pursuant to the Agreement.

Unless the Superintendent agrees otherwise, the Contractor shall submit claims for progress payments at monthly intervals.


Within 14 days of receipt of a claim, the Superintendent shall:
(a) assess the claim,
(b) determine the value of the work satisfactorily carried out by the Contractor, and
(c) advise the Principal of the amount to be paid.

Within 28 days of the receipt of the claim the Principal shall pay the Contractor the amount so determined.

Unless advised otherwise by the Superintendent, when all the Contractor's obligations under the Agreement have been fulfilled, the Works shall be deemed to have been satisfactorily completed.

Adjustment to payment for rise and fall will not be made unless specified otherwise in the Specification. 

12.	GOODS AND SERVICES TAX

Payment from the Principal to the Contractor will include the GST payable. Any invoice for payment under this Agreement shall be a Tax Invoice in accordance with "A New Tax System (Goods and Services Tax) Act 1999".  The Principal is not obliged to make any payment under this Agreement unless the Contractor has provided a Tax Invoice in respect of that payment.

13.	CLEANING OF SITE

The Contractor shall keep the site and any works clean and tidy, and shall remove regularly from the site rubbish and surplus material arising from execution of the work under the Contract.

On completion of the Works, the Contractor shall remove from the site all rubbish, surplus material, construction plant and temporary works leaving the site, Works and any existing structures in a state of repair satisfactory to the Superintendent.

14.	CO-OPERATING WITH OTHERS

The Contractor shall:
(a)  cooperate in a courteous manner with DTEI employees, members of the public, business proprietors and all other contractors during the course of work.
(b)  Maintain good behavior acceptable to the Superintendent during working hours and, if applicable, outside working hours when in DTEI camp / arranged accommodation.

Failure to comply with these requirements may result in the Contractor being removed from the Panel.

15.	MEETINGS

The Contractor will attend any meetings as reasonably required by the Superintendent.  During these meetings the Contractor's performance, OHS&W, Environmental and any other relevant issues may be discussed.

16.	CONTRACTOR PERFORMANCE

At any time the Superintendent may undertake an evaluation of the Contractor's performance using the Contract Performance Evaluation Procedure.  A copy of the procedure will be made available to the Contractor if requested.  The evaluation, which will include reasons for any below acceptable scores, will be forwarded to the Contractor when completed.  

If the Contractor disagrees with the evaluation, they may forward a request to the Superintendent for a review, along with reasons why it should be reviewed.  Following reasonable consideration of the request, the Superintendent's decision will be final.

The evaluation may be taken into account in the assessment of future tenders.


17.	REMEDIES

If:
(a) the Contractor fails to execute the Works to the standard required under this Contract:
(b) notice has been given to the Contractor to rectify the default and it has not been rectified within 14 days of the notice or such other time as permitted by the Principal; or
(c) the standard of performance in executing the Works is such that the Principal's efficiency or the proper, safe and cost effective performance of the Principal's functions is affected,
the Principal may engage another Contractor to execute the Works or any part of the Works.  In this event, the cost of having the Works so carried out shall be deducted from the amount owing to the Contractor.

18.	TERMINATION

This Agreement may be terminated by the Principal if, in its opinion, any of the following events occur:
(a) a substantial, repeated or persistent breach by the Contractor of any provision of the Agreement whether or not written notice of the breach has been given to the Contractor;
(b) the Contractor has failed to effect specific remedial action within the time specified by the Principal in a written notice that monitoring of the Contractor's performance has detected a deficiency in execution of the Works;
(c) the Contractor suffers or is in jeopardy of becoming subject to any form of Insolvency Administration; or
(d) the Contractor fails to comply with any of its obligations in relation to occupational health, safety and welfare.

If the Principal terminates this Contract, it shall pay the Contractor for that part of the Works authorised by the Principal and performed by the Contractor up to the termination date.

19.	DISPUTES

Any dispute arising out of the Contract, whether raised before or after completion of the Works shall be referred to the Superintendent, who with the Contractor and the Principal shall attempt to resolve the dispute or agree upon other means to resolve the dispute.

If within 14 days of the dispute being referred to the Superintendent, the dispute is not resolved by agreement or a means to resolve the dispute agreed upon, either party may refer the dispute to the Chairperson or President for the time being of the Institute of Arbitrators and Mediators Australia (SA Chapter) to appoint an arbitrator and determine the rules to conduct an arbitration to resolve the matter.

20.	OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY

The Principal is committed to the provision of a healthy and safe working environment.  The Principal requires the Contractor to accept the same commitment to occupational health and safety and the Contractor shall comply, and ensure that its employees, agents and subcontractors comply, with the Occupational Health, Safety and Welfare Act, 1986 and any reasonable instruction issued by the Principal in relation to Occupational Health, Safety and Welfare (OHS&W).

If requested by the Principal, the Contractor shall:
(a) provide evidence satisfactory to the Principal of its capacity to comply with the Occupational Health, Safety and Welfare Act, 1986;
(b) provide evidence that its employees, agents and subcontractors have received appropriate training in and are aware of their legal obligation and responsibilities in relation to occupational health safety and welfare; and
(c) provide the Contractor's Workcover Registration Number.



The Contractor shall permit the Principal to carry out any inspections the Principal deems necessary to ensure that the Contractor is complying with the Occupational Health and Safety practices referred to in this Contract. If all or part of the work under this Agreement is to be provided on a site controlled by the Principal or under the direction of the Principal, the Contractor shall comply with the Principal's OHS&W policies, procedures and instructions.  If the Contractor becomes aware of any potentially hazardous situation on the premises of the Principal, the Contractor shall immediately bring it to the Principal's attention for a direction regarding the matter.

If the Principal has additional requirements regarding the preparation and implementation of OHS&W systems and plans, these will be detailed in the attached OHS&W Requirements.

21.	CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY TRAINING FUND

For construction contracts of over $15 000, attention is drawn to the Construction Industry Training Fund Act 1993 which imposes a levy of 0.25% of the value of building and construction works in South Australia from 1 September 1993.  Payment of this levy shall be the responsibility of the Contractor.  Proof of payment of the levy may be required prior to the first or any progress payment being made under this Contract.



_____________



ANNEXURE TO THE AGREEMENT


The Principal is: (Clause 2)Commissioner of Highways
Roma Mitchell House
136 North Terrace
ADELAIDE  5000
The Superintendent is: (Clause 3)
The Manager, Infrastructure Delivery
DTEI
33 - 37 Warwick Street,
WALKERVILLE    5081.
Public Liability Insurance: (Clause )$10 000 000.
Expiry Date:  (Clause 9)......years from the date of this Agreement.



_______________






DTEI XXCxxx

Edition:  November 2009	Panel Agreement: Provision of Minor Works & Field Services



DTEI XXCxxx	Page 2

Revision 0	Panel Agreement
	Annexure






