  










Consultancy Services Agreement



































CONSULTANCY SERVICES AGREEMENT
Date
Parties
Queensland University of Technology ABN 83 791 724 622 and having its principal place of business at 2 George Street, Brisbane, Queensland, Australia (QUT)
The person or entity specified in Item 1 of the Schedule (Consultant)
 
Background
A	QUT has requested the Consultant to provide the Consulting Services to QUT.
B	The Consultant has agreed to provide the Consulting Services in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.

Agreed Terms
1	Interpretation
1.1	In this document:
	Agreement means this consultancy services agreement.
	Business Day means a day which is not a Saturday, Sunday or bank or public holiday in Brisbane.
	Commencement Date means the date specified in Item 2 of the Schedule.
	Confidential Information means any information which is:
(a) marked as confidential;
(b) is by its nature confidential; or
(c) the recipient knows or ought to know is confidential,
and includes, in relation to QUT:
(d) the Contract Material;
(e) information or documents regarding QUT's business affairs generally or specifically;
(f) the affairs of its customers and others with whom it deals; and
(g) employees or agents,
but does not include any information which:
(h) is publicly available now, or hereafter becomes, through no act or failure to act on the part of the recipient;
(i) was acquired by the recipient before receiving such information from the discloser and with out restriction as to its use or disclosure;
(j) is hereafter rightfully furnished to the recipient by a third party, without restriction as to its use or disclosure;or
(k) is independently developed by the recipient without references to the confidential information of the discloser.
Consultant means the person specified in Item 1 of the Schedule and the Consultant's permitted successors and assigns.
Consulting Services means the activities and services referred to in Item 4 of the Schedule.
Contract Material means all material including but not limited to documents, designs, computer software, equipment and data stored by any means which is created for the purposes of performing the Consulting Services.
Key Personnel means the person or persons specified in Item 3 of the Schedule.
Moral Rights has the meaning given to that term in the Copyright Act 1968(Cth).
Personal Information means information or an opinion (including information or an opinion forming part of a database), whether true or not and whether recorded in material form or not, about an individual whose identity is apparent or can reasonably be ascertained, from the information or opinion.
Term means the term of the Agreement as specified in Item 5 of the Schedule.
1.2 Unless expressed to the contrary, in this document:
(a) "includes" means includes without limitation; and
(b) No rule of construction will apply to a clause to the disadvantage of a party merely because that party put forward the clause or would otherwise benefit from it.
1.3 Headings do not affect the interpretation of this document.
2 Period of Performance
2.1 Subject to rights of earlier termination, this Agreement will continue for the Term.
2.2	The Consultant must provide the Consulting Services at the time and in the manner as specified in 	Item 4 of the Schedule or, if no time is specified, on or before the expiry of the Term.
3	Performance
3.1	The Consultant must:
	(a)	inform itself of the requirements of QUT in respect of the Consulting Services;
(b)	consultant regularly with QUT throughout the performance of the Consulting Services and perform the Consulting Services as directed by QUT; 
(c)	act professionally at all times in the performance of the Consulting Services, exercising the skill, care and diligence normally required in this respect; and
(d) 	perform or cause to be performed the Consulting Services in a proper and professional manner.
3.2	QUT may direct the Consultant by written notice to increase, decrease or omit any part of the Consulting Services.  The Consultant must reduce or cease work in accordance with QUT's direction and take all necessary steps to minimise any loss suffered as a result of such a direction.  The Consultant is not entitled to any cancellation costs or penalties if the Consulting Services are reduced or omitted.
3.3	QUT will make available to the Consultant the assistance, if any, specified in Item 7 of the Schedule.
3.4	When using QUT's premises or facilities, the Consultant must ensure its personnel comply with all rules, directions and procedures including those relating to security and to occupational health and safety which are in effect at those premises or in regard to those facilities.
4	Personnel
4.1	Where nominated, the Consultant must ensure that the Key Personnel predominantly carry out, perform and provide the Consulting Services.
4.2	No substitution or diversion of any Key Personnel to another activity may be made without express written agreement of QUT.
4.3	The Consultant, Key Personnel and any other person who supplies, performs or carries out the Consulting Services will not be taken to be or become employees or agents of QUT and are independent contractors.
4.4	The Consultant will be responsible for effecting all insurances required under workers compensation legislation and will be deemed to be the employer of the Key Personnel and any other person assigned to supply, perform or carry out the Consulting Services.
5	Charges, billing and expenses
5.1	The Consultant will bill QUT for the Consulting Services provided for the agreed price or at the agreed rate as specified in Item 6 of the Schedule.  The Consultant must keep appropriate records to enable verification of Consulting Services performed.
5.2	Any extra work outside the scope of the Consulting Services will be deemed as a gratuitous effort by the Consultant, and no claim against QUT for such work can be made, unless QUT agrees otherwise.
5.3	The Consultant's invoice for satisfactory work completed under this Agreement will be forwarded to QUT in accordance with Item 6 of the Schedule.  Upon receipt of an invoice, QUT may require the Consultant to provide additional information to assist QUT to determine whether or not an amount is payable.
5.4	Payment for all charges will be made by QUT within thirty (30) days of certification by QUT that the Consulting Services to which the invoice relates have been rendered in accordance with this Agreement.  QUT's trading terms are Nett 30 unless prior agreement has been made by QUT and the Consultant.
5.5	QUT will not be liable for any expenses incurred by the Consultant unless the expenses are specified in Item 8 of the Schedule.
6	Contract Material
6.1	Title to and intellectual property rights in all Contract Material created by the Consultant, including each and every stage of design and production thereof, will upon its creation vest in QUT.
6.2	To the extent that the Contract Material contains material the subject of pre-existing intellectual property rights of the Consultant or third parties, this Agreement does not affect those rights but the Consultant hereby grants and must ensure that all relevant thrid parties grant to QUT, a non-exclusive, transferable, irrevocable paid up licence:
	(a)	 to use, reproduce and adapt; and
(b)	to perform any other act with respect to copyright and to exploit or commercialise all those intellectual property rights as part of the Contract Material and any future development of the Contract Material.
6.3	Prior to a person commencing work in respect of the Contract Material, the Consultant must obtain from that person and provide to QUT upon request:
(a)	all consents, permissions and assignments to enable QUT to exercise in full without cost to QUT and without restriction the rights granted under this clause 6; and
(b)	without limiting clause 6.3(a), consent to any act or omission which may otherwise infringe the Moral Rights of that individual.  If requested by QUT, that consent will be in a form specified by QUT.
6.4	The Consultant must ensure that the Contract Material is used, copied, supplied or reproduced only for the purposes of the Agreement.  The Consultant must make the Contract Material available to QUT upon request.	
6.5	On the expiry or termination of the Agreement or any earlier request by QUT, the Consultant must deliver up all copies of the Contract Material to QUT.  However, the Consultant may retain one copy of the Contract Material for archival purposes only.
6.6	The Consultant will do all things necessary to perfect the vesting of the property referred to in clauses 6.1 and 6.2 including executing any transfer or assignment if required by QUT.
6.7	The Consultant must permit access to its place of business and records to enable QUT's representative to assess compliance with this clause.
6.8	This clause 6 survives the expiry or termination of this Agreement.
7	Disclosure of information and confidentiality
7.1	Subject to clause 7.3, both parties must keep confidential and must not disclose or make available directly or indirectly to any third party any Confidential Information of the other.
7.2	The parties may use the Confidential Information only for the purposes of performing or receiving the benefit of this Agreement.
7.3	The parties must not disclose any Confidential Information of the other to any third person except:
	(a)	to professional advisors on a confidential basis for the purpose of obtaining advice;
	(b)	with prior written consent of the other; or
	(c)	where compelled to do so by law.
7.4	The parties undertake to:
(a)	take reasonable precautions to maintain confidentiality and prevent unauthorised disclosure and use of Confidential Information; and
	(b)	to ensure its staff observe the obligations of confidentiality imposed under this clause 7.
8	Privacy and disclosure of Personal Information
	The Consultant must, with respect to any Personal Information it collects or accesses in the course of providing the Services:
(a) not use the Personal Information other than for the purpose of performing this document unless required or authorised by law or the relevant  person consents to that disclosure;
(b) take reasonable steps to protect the Personal Information from misuse and loss and from unauthorised access, use, modification or disclosure;
(c) not disclose the Personal Information to any other person, unless required or authorised by law or the relevant person consents to that disclosure;
(d) ensure that only those Personnel who are involved in the provision of Consultancy Services have access to the Personal Information;
(e) ensure that its personnel are aware of the Consultant's obligations under this clause including, when requested by QUT, requiring any of them to sign an undertaking in relation to Personal Information substantially in the form of this clause;
(f) immediately notify QUT if the Consultant becomes aware that disclosure of the Personal Information is, or maybe, required or authorised by law or if it becomes aware of any breach of this clause;
(g) on request by the relevant person, give to the person access to their Personal Information stored in any record held by the Consultant, except to the extent that the Consultant is required or authorised by law to refuse to provide the person with access to that record;
(h) otherwise to comply with the National Privacy Principles set out in the Privacy Act 1988(Cth).

9	Warranties

9.1	The Consultant warrants that, to the best of its knowledge, information and belief, at the date of this Agreement, no conflict of interest exists or is likely to arise in the performance of its obligations under this Agreement.  The Consultant will inform QUT if any potential conflict of interest arises during the Term.

9.2 The consultant warrants that:

(a) the Consultant's personnel (including Key Personnel) are suitably skilled, qualified and experienced to carry out the Consulting Services;

(b) the Consulting Services will be performed with due care and skill, and in accordance with all applicable laws;

(c) Contract Material created by the Consultant and its personnel (including Key Personnel) is original; and

(d) It will maintain the Confidential Information of QUT in confidence

10 Insurances

10.1	In addition to the insurance required under clause 4.4, the Consultant must effect and maintain during the Term, the public liability insurance and the professional indemnity insurance for the amount not less than the public liability insurance amount (if any) and the professional indemnity insurance amount (if any) specified in Items 10 and 11 respectively of the Schedule.

10.2 The insurance policies required under this clause 10 will be effected and maintained with a reputable insurer acceptable to QUT.	

10.3 In respect of any contract of insurance specified in clause 10.1  which is 'claims made' or 'claims made and notified' insurance, the Consultant will continue to maintain such insurance for period of 12 months after expiry of the Term.

10.4 The Consultant must, on request by QUT, produce evidence of the insurance required under clause 4.4 and this clause 10.

11 Liability, release, and indemnity

11.1 The Consultant will perform the Consulting Services in accordance with all laws and at its own risk.

11.2 The Consultant will be liable for loss of damage (including personal injury whether or not resulting in death) suffered by QUT, its officers, employees, agents, visitors, invitees, or licensees arising from the acts or omissions of the Consultant, in the course of performance (or attempted or purported performance) of the Consulting Services

11.3 The Consultant:

(a) releases and indemnifies QUT or any member of QUT and all its officers, employees and agents from and against all actions, proceedings, claims and demands which may be brought or made against any of them by any person; and

Indemnifies QUT against any loss or damage suffered by QUT, arising from:

(b) the wilful or negligent acts or omissions of the Consultant, Key Personnel or any person for whose conduct the Consultant is liable;

(c) any infringement or alleged infringement of any intellectual property rights in respect of Contract material; or

(d) death, injury, loss or damage suffered by the Consultant, Key Personnel or any of the Consultant's visitors, invitees or licensees except where the death, injury, loss or damage is caused by the negligence of fraud of QUT.

In connection with the performance (or attempted or purported performance) of the Consulting Services; or

(e) any breach of the Agreement by the Consultant or Key Personnel.

11.4 The Consultant must inform QUT in writing of any claim or of the occurrence of any event that may give rise to a claim under the insurance policies required under clauses 4.4 and 10 or the indemnity provisions in this clause  11, within 7 days of the claim or event occurring, and must ensure QUT is kept fully informed of subsequent actions and developments concerning the claim or event.

12 Termination of Agreement

12.1 Subject to the mutual written agreement of QUT and the Consultant, this agreement may be terminated at any time.

12.2 If the Consultant:

(a) assigns this Agreement or any of the benefits or purports to assign, subcontract or otherwise divest itself of any of its obligations under this Agreement without QUT's written consent;

(b) appoints or has appointed to it a receiver, receiver and manager, administrator, controller, liquidator or similar officer;

(c) is in material breach of this Agreement and does not remedy that breach within 14 days notice requiring it to do so;

(d) receives notification of breach of this Agreement no less than 3 times within a twelve month period (whether or not the breaches are subsequently remedied);

(e) is unable to make Key Personnel available or provide substitute personnel satisfactory to QUT;

(f) abandons, is unable or refuses to proceed with the Consulting Services; or

(g) has a conflict of interest under clause 9.1 of this Agreement,

then QUT may without prejudice to any other rights it may have and without liability to pay damages or compensation, immediately terminate this Agreement by notice to the Consultant.

12.3 On termination of this Agreement pursuant to this clause, all money that has been paid and all money to be paid for work done up to the date of termination will be in full and final satisfaction of all claims by the Consultant under this Agreement.

12.4 Upon expiry or termination of this Agreement, the Consultant will provide all assistance reasonably requested by QUT to achieve an orderly transition.

13 Notices

13.1 Notices under this Agreement may be delivered by prepaid postage or certified mail by hand or by facsimile transmission to the parties at the address set out in Item 9 of the Schedule or such other address or facsimile as either party may specify by notice in writing to the other.

13.2 Notices will be deemed to be given:

(a) two Business Days (within Australia) or seven Business Days (international) after deposit in the mail with postage prepaid:

(b) when delivered by hand; or

(c) if sent by facsimile transmission upon confirmation of successful transmission.

14 Assignment by Consultant prohibited

14.1 The Consultant must not assign or otherwise deal with its rights or interests under this Agreement without the prior written consent of QUT.

14.2 QUT will not be obliged to consent to any assignment or any other dealing of rights or interests under this Agreement

15 General

15.1 The Consultant as between the parties is liable for and must pay all duty (including any fine or penalty except where it arises from default by the other party) on or relating to this document.

15.2 GST

(a) In this clause 15.2, words and expressions that are not defined in this Agreement but have a defined meaning in GST Law have the same meaning as in the GST Law.  GST Law has the meaning given to that expression in the A New Tax System (Goods and Services Tax) Act 1999.

(b) Unless otherwise expressly stated, all prices or other sums payable or consideration to be provided under this Agreement are exclusive of GST.

(c) If GST is payable by a supplier on any supply made under this Agreement, the recipient will pay to the supplier an amount equal to the GST payable on the supply

(d) If this Agreement requires a party to reimburse or indemnify the other party for any expense, loss or outgoings ("reimbursable expense"), the amount require to be paid by the first party will be the sum of:

(i)	the amount of the reimbursable expense less any input tax credits to which the other party is entitled in respect of the reimbursable expense ("net amount"); and

(ii)	if the payment or reimbursement is subject to GST, an amount equal to that GST.


(e) The recipient will pay the amount of GST referred to in clause 15.2(c) in addition to and at the same time that the consideration for the supply is to be provided under this Agreement, provided the supplier delivers to the recipient a valid tax invoice or adjustment note at or before the time payment is required.  The recipient may withhold payment of the GST until the supplier provides a valid tax invoice or adjustment note as appropriate.

(f) If an adjustment event arises in respect of a taxable supply made by a supplier under this Agreement, the amount payable by the recipient under clause 15.2(c) will be recalculated to reflect the adjustment event and a payment will be made by the recipient to the supplier or by the supplier to the recipient as the case requires.

(g) "Pay As You Go" withholding amounts will be deducted from payments to be made to the Consultant, if at the time payment is required, the Consultant has not provided to QUT a valid Australian Business Number.

15.3 This Agreement may only be varied or replaced by a document executed by the parties.

15.4 A single or partial exercise or waiver by a party of a right relating to this document does not prevent any other exercise of that right or the exercise of any other right.  A party is not liable for any loss, cost or expense of any other party caused or contributed to by the waiver, exercise, attempted exercise, failure to exercise or delay in the exercise of a right.

15.5 This document is governed by and is to be construed in accordance with the laws applicable in Queensland.  Each party submits to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of the courts of Queensland, and any courts which have jurisdiction to hear appeals from any of those courts, and waives any right to object to any proceedings being brought in those courts.

15.6 An obligation of two or more persons binds them separately and together.

15.7 This document contains the entire understanding between the parties as to the subject matter of this document.  All previous negotiations, understandings, representations or warranties concerning the subject matter of this document are merged in and superseded by this document and are of no effect.

15.8 This document is not intended to create a partnership, joint venture or agency relationship between the parties.  The Consultant is an independent contractor and has no authority to act for or to bind QUT in any manner other than as expressly stated in this document.


	








Schedule 1

Item 1		Consultant
		Name and ABN:
		Address:
Item 2		Commencement Date
		[Insert date]
Item 3		Key Personnel
Item 4		Consulting Services
		[Insert full description including any required timeframe/milestones/deliverables]
Item 5		Term
		[Insert period]
Item 6		Payment Rates
		[Insert applicable price or rates]
		Invoicing
		[Insert invoice requirements]
Item 7		Assistance
Item 8		Expenses
Item 9		Notices
		To QUT:				To Consultant:
		[Name]					[Name]
		[Title]					[Title]
		[Address]				[Address]
		Fax:	[Insert]				Fax:	[Insert]
Item 10		Public Liability Insurance
The Consultant must have in place Public Liability Insurance to the value of $[Insert] for any one event.
Item 11		Professional Indemnity Insurance
The Consultant must have in place Professional Indemnity Insurance to the value of $[Insert] for any one event.
Executed as an agreement.

Executed by QUEENSLAND                        
UNIVERSITY OF TECHNOLOGY by its       
Duly appointed officer in the presence          
of:                                                                  




...................................................................		.............................................................
Witness	                                                                     Officer


...................................................................                 .............................................................
Name of Witness (print)	                                          Name of Officer (print)

...................................................................		.............................................................
Date	                                                                     Date



Executed by [CONSULTANT] by its                      
Duly appointed officer in the presence          
of:                                                                  


...................................................................		.............................................................
Witness	                                                                     Officer


...................................................................                 .............................................................
Name of Witness (print)	                                          Name of Officer (print)

...................................................................		.............................................................
Date	                                                                     Date






1


