
REFERRAL AGREEMENT

THIS REFERRAL AGREEMENT is made this         day of May in the year Two Thousand and Six, between the following parties:

INSERT NAME OF COUNCIL of insert street address, insert suburb or town in the State of New South Wales (the "Council"); and

LOCAL GOVERNMENT ASSOCIATION OF NEW SOUTH WALES or SHIRES ASSOCIATION OF NEW SOUTH WALES of Level 8, 28 Margaret Street, Sydney in the State of New South Wales (the "LGSA"); and

NEW SOUTH WALES LOCAL GOVERNMENT, CLERICAL, ADMINISTRATIVE, ENERGY, AIRLINES AND UTILITIES UNION of Level 7, 321 Pitt Street, Sydney in the State of New South Wales (the "USU"); and

DEVELOPMENT AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROFESSIONALS' ASSOCIATION of 106/118 Great North Road, Five Dock in the State of New South Wales ("depa"); and

LOCAL GOVERNMENT ENGINEERS' ASSOCIATION of Level 1, 491 Kent Street, Sydney in the State of New South Wales (the "LGEA").


RECITALS

A.	The Council, the LGSA, the USU, depa and the LGEA have agreed to resolve disputes concerning industrial matters arising between them about the employment of Council employees, who are members or eligible to be members of the USU and/or depa and/or the LGEA, by allowing such matters to be referred to the Industrial Relations Commission of New South Wales (the "Commission") as allowed pursuant to the provisions of section 146A of the Industrial Relations Act 1996 (NSW) (the "Act"), in accordance with the terms of this Referral Agreement.  

B.	Where such disputes concerning industrial matters arise the parties agree that they would be assisted in resolving these disputes by the Industrial Relations Commission of New South Wales.


OPERATIVE PROVISIONS

The parties to this Referral Agreement agree that the following terms, conditions and exclusions apply to such a referral:

1. For the purposes of this Referral Agreement, an industrial matter has the same meaning as the definition found at section 6 of the Act, but does not include the termination of employment of (or the refusal to employ) any person or class of persons.

2. This Referral Agreement applies to disputes about industrial matters that occur or arise on or after the date that the Referral Agreement is entered into.

3. Notwithstanding clause 1, the employment of the general manager or another senior staff member, as defined by section 332 of the Local Government Act 1993 (NSW), or any matter, question or dispute relating to any such employment, is not an industrial matter for the purposes of this Referral Agreement.

4. The reference in clause 3 above to the employment of the general manager or another senior staff member, as defined by section 332 of the Local Government Act 1993 (NSW), is a reference to: 

a. the appointment of, or failure to appoint, a person to the vacant position of general manager or to another vacant senior staff position, or

b. the removal, retirement, termination of employment or other cessation of office of the general manager or another senior staff member, or

c. the remuneration or conditions of employment of the general manager or another senior staff member.

5. A party to this Referral Agreement may notify the Commission of a dispute about an industrial matter in accordance with any procedures established by the Commission, for the referral of disputes under a Referral Agreement made pursuant to the provisions of section 146A of the Act.

6. Prior to the notification of an industrial dispute pursuant to clause 5 above, the parties to this Referral Agreement agree to:

a. notify in writing either, the Council and the LGSA, or, the relevant union parties, of a potential dispute; and

b. where practicable meet with either, the Council and the LGSA, or, the relevant union parties, to discuss and review settlement options.

7. For the purpose of resolving an industrial dispute, the Commission may convene compulsory conferences and require the attendance of any person whose presence, the Commission considers would help in the resolution of the dispute.  A compulsory conference is to be presided over by a member of the Commission.  

8. The Commission may confer with any person on any matter that may affect the resolution of an industrial dispute, without requiring the person to attend a compulsory conference.

9. The Commission must first attempt to resolve an industrial dispute by conciliation.

10. When attempting the conciliation of the industrial dispute, the Commission is to do everything that seems to be proper to assist the parties agree on terms for the resolution of the dispute.

11. During conciliation proceedings, the Commission may make a recommendation or give a direction to the parties to the industrial dispute.  Failure to comply with any such recommendation or direction may not be penalised but may be taken into account by the Commission in exercising its functions under this Referral Agreement.

12. The actions that may be taken by the Commission to assist the parties pursuant to clause 10 above includes making arrangements or giving directions for the convening and conduct of conferences of the parties or their representatives (whether or not compulsory conferences and whether or not presided over by a member of the Commission).

13. The Commission, when dealing with an industrial dispute under this Referral Agreement, must consider whether the parties have bargained in good faith and, in particular, whether the parties have:

a. attended meetings they have agreed to attend, and
b. complied with agreed or reasonable negotiating procedures, and
c. disclosed relevant information for the purposes of negotiation.

The Commission may make recommendations or give directions to the parties to bargain in good faith.

14. Upon conclusion of the conciliation functions of the Commission outlined above in clauses 7 to 13, the parties to this Referral Agreement may utilise and exercise the same right as is contained in section 173 of the Act.

15. In the event that a dispute is not resolved through conciliation, then the parties to this Referral Agreement agree to refer a dispute for arbitration by the Commission.

16. In hearing proceedings under this Referral Agreement the Commission shall be limited to the same powers, orders and functions as contained in:

a. sections 135 and 136 of the Act, save for the power in section 136(1)(b) to make or vary an award under Part 1 of Chapter 2 of the Act;

b. Part 2 of Chapter 3 of the Act, save for the orders outlined in section 137(1)(b), that being orders to reinstate, or re-employ employees dismissed in the course of an industrial dispute or whose dismissal resulted in the industrial dispute;

c. section 162 of the Act in relation to the general procedure of the Commission;

d. section 163(1) of the Act in relation to the rules of evidence;

e. sections 164(1) and (3) of the Act in relation to powers of the Commission as to the production of evidence, perjury and contempt;

f. sections 164A(1), (3) and (4) of the Act in relation to the disclosure and non-disclosure of matters before the Commission;

g. section 165 of the Act in relation to the issue of summonses;

h. section 166 of the Act in relation to the representation of the parties;

i. section 169 of the Act in relation to the consideration of anti-discrimination matters;

j. section 170 of the Act in relation to dealing with amendments and irregularities;

k. section 171 of the Act in relation to the imposition of conditions;

l. section 174 of the Act in relation to the powers of the Commission when an application is settled by conciliation;

m. section 175 of the Act in relation to the powers of interpretation;

n. section 176 of the Act in relation to the reconstitution of the Commission during a hearing;

o. section 177 of the Act in relation to the reserving of a decision; 

p. section 178 of the Act in relation to the divided opinion of the Commission in Full Bench proceedings referred under clause 22 below;

q. section 179 of the Act in relation to the finality of decisions; and

r. section 184 of the Act in relation to the power of entry of members of the Commission and authorised officers.

17. Subject to clauses 18 and 19 below, the parties to this Referral Agreement agree to confer upon the Commission the power to make an award in a manner consistent with section 136(1)(b) of the Act.

18. The Commission's power to make an award in accordance with clause 17 shall be limited to the making of an award about a specific issue or issues that are the subject of a dispute notified under this Referral Agreement.

19. The power conferred upon the Commission in clause 17 is not intended to provide the Commission with the power to make or vary a general award that has industry application.

20. In giving effect to the powers, orders and functions referred to the Commission in clause 16 above, the parties agree that the provisions, conditions, exclusions, powers and forms contained in the Industrial Relations (General) Regulation 2001 and the Industrial Relations Commission Rules 1996 also operate.

21. Subject to the operation of clause 22 below, an order, determination or other decision made by the Commission by operation of this Referral Agreement is binding upon the parties to a dispute notified under this Referral Agreement, and is to be implemented forthwith.

22. A party to this Referral Agreement may appeal any binding order, determination or decision of the Commission arising from the operation of this Referral Agreement.  An appeal to a Full Bench of the Commission shall be subject to the terms, procedures and powers that are akin to the provisions of Part 7 of Chapter 4 of the Act.  Where such an appeal is made the Full Bench shall have the same powers as contained in section 192 of the Act.

23. Where all the parties to this Referral Agreement agree to modify or vary the Referral Agreement, then this Referral Agreement may be modified or varied and any such variation is to be in writing and signed by all the parties.

24. Where all the parties to this Referral Agreement agree this Referral Agreement may be rescinded or terminated (prior to the expiration of the term in clause 25) and any such rescission or termination is to be in writing and signed by all the parties.

25. This Referral Agreement will have a nominal term that expires on 31 October 2007.  The Referral Agreement will continue to operate beyond the nominal term until a party to the Agreement affords to the other parties one months' written notice that it intends to terminate the Referral Agreement.  The Referral Agreement will expire at the end of the notice period.




On behalf of the Council				On behalf of the LGSA





On behalf of the USU					On behalf of depa






On behalf of the LGEA

Disputes Referral Agreement		Page 1 of 5	

