VOLUNTEER'S ASSIGNMENT OF RIGHTS AND CONFIDENTIALITY DEED


THE PARTIES


Name:


of 

Address:
(Volunteer)

AND

REDFERN LEGAL CENTRE ACN 001 442 039 
of 
73 Pitt St Redfern NSW 2016
(Redfern Legal Centre)

RECITALS

A.	The Volunteer agrees to provide services to the Redfern Legal Centre without payment as a volunteer (Services).

B. In carrying out the Services, the Volunteer may create original works including literary works (Works). 

C.	The Volunteer assigns to the Redfern Legal Centre all rights (including copyright) in the Works, on the terms of this agreement.

THE PARTIES AGREE AS FOLLOWS:

1.	Definitions

	Fact Sheet means a literary work created for inclusion on the Redfern Legal Centre's website under the heading 'Fact Sheets'.

	Moral Rights means any of the rights described in Article 6bis of the Berne Convention for the Protection of Literary Works 1886, and other analogous rights, including under the Copyright Act 1968 (Cth), that exist, or that may come to exist anywhere in the world in the Works.

2.	Assignment

	The Volunteer assigns to the Redfern Legal Centre, absolutely, all the Volunteer's rights and interests (including all copyright) in the Works throughout the world for the term of copyright in the Works, including all extensions and renewals.
3.	Moral Rights

(a) To the extent permitted by applicable law, and subject to clause 3(b), the Volunteer unconditionally and irrevocably consents to the following acts or omissions by the Redfern Legal Centre or its licensees that would, but for this consent, infringe the Volunteer's Moral Rights:
i. Using, reproducing, adapting or exploiting all or any part of any of the
Works, with or without attribution of authorship;
ii. Supplementing the Works with any other material; and
iii. Using the Works in a different context to that originally anticipated.

(b) Except in relation to Fact Sheets, the Redfern Legal Centre must use its best endeavours to ensure that the Volunteer is attributed as the author of literary works created by the Volunteer and published by the Redfern Legal Centre Centre.  If, however, the Redfern Legal Centre fails to do so, the failure is not a breach of this agreement.

4.	Confidentiality

a) The Volunteer:
i. Acknowledges the importance of the confidential relationship between solicitor and client that extends to everyone employed by or volunteering at the Redfern Legal Centre and the importance of the confidential nature of the business of the Redfern Legal Centre;
ii. Must:
A. Maintain a duty of confidentiality, including the non-disclosure of any information obtained in any manner or in any form during the course of the Volunteer's duties at the Redfern Legal Centre; and
B. Without limitation, carry out any client interviews, other discussions or meetings in a confidential manner, including carrying on any necessary case discussion relating to a client, with a staff member or other volunteers, in a confidential environment within the Redfern Legal Centre.

b) The parties agree that the Volunteer's obligations under clause 4(a) do not apply to information that:
i. Is in or enters the public domain through no fault of the Volunteer; 
ii. Is or was made available on a non-confidential basis to the Volunteer by a person or organisation (other than the Redfern Legal Centre) who is or was not under any obligation of confidence to the disclosing party in relation to that information; or 
iii. Is or was developed by the Volunteer independently of the Redfern Legal Centre and any of its employees, agents or contractors.

c) In the event that I am no longer a volunteer of the Redfern Legal Centre I will continue to hold in the strictest confidence all information related to the work of the Redfern Legal Centre.

5.	Changing the agreement

The parties may only change, supplement, replace or novate this agreement with another written document signed by the parties.


6. Relationship of the parties

The parties agree that:

a) Each are independent contractors and that the Volunteer is not an employee of the Redfern Legal Centre; and
b) The Volunteer does not have authority to bind the Redfern Legal Centre by contract or otherwise and must not hold themself out as having this authority.

7.	General

a) This Agreement is governed by the law in force in New South Wales.
b) This Agreement contains the entire agreement between the parties about its subject matter. Any previous understanding, agreement, representation or warranty relating to that subject matter is replaced by this agreement and has no further effect.
c) The Volunteer must do anything (including execute any document) that the Redfern Legal Centre may reasonably require to give full effect to this agreement.

Signed, sealed and delivered by 
the Volunteer:



Date:



Authorised Officer:						

Print full name:

Office held:

Date:	



1
C:\Documents and Settings\Chris Bell\Desktop\jeremiesdocs\Confidentiality Agreement.doc

