
DEED OF ASSIGNMENT OF INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY DEED- FROM A STAFF MEMBER TO THE UNIVERSITY


THIS DEED OF ASSIGNMENT is made pursuant to the Griffith University Intellectual Property Policy and the Griffith University Intellectual Property Procedures as amended from time to time and housed in the Griffith University Policy Library. 

WHEREAS: 

A.	The Staff Member has developed and owns Intellectual Property or will in the course of their employment at the University create Intellectual Property.

B.	The University wishes to acquire ownership of the Intellectual Property from the Staff Member.

C.	The Staff Member agrees to assign her/his Intellectual Property rights to the University in accordance with the terms of this Deed.

1.0 DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATION
1.1 Defined terms are set out in this Deed.  Any term appearing in capitals which is not defined in this Deed will take the definition prescribed within the Griffith University Intellectual Property Policy and the Griffith University Intellectual Property Procedures.
1.2 To the extent of any inconsistency between terms defined in this Deed and terms defined in the Griffith University Intellectual Property Policy and the Griffith University Intellectual Property Procedures, the terms defined in this Deed prevail. 
2.0 ASSIGNMENT OF INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY IN SCHOLARLY WORKS, CREATIVE WORKS AND EDUCATIONAL MATERIALS CREATED BY STAFF - SECTIONS 5.0 AND 6.0 OF THE GRIFFITH UNIVERSITY INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY POLICY
2.1 The Staff Member assigns to the University all rights, title and interest in the Intellectual Property created by the Staff Member, in respect of:
(a) Scholarly Works and/or Creative Works, while employed by the University and in the course of their employment by the University; or
(b) Educational Material, while employed by the University,
subject to the Staff Member's Moral Rights as prescribed in section 8.0 of the Griffith University Intellectual Property Policy.
2.2 The Staff Member:
(a) grants the University the right to apply for patent protection in respect of any invention or innovation comprised in the Intellectual Property;
(b) acknowledges that no additional documentation is necessary to complete the assignment; and
(c) will do all things reasonably requested by the University (at the University's expense) to enable the University or its assignee to obtain and/or exploit the Intellectual Property rights assigned under this Deed.
2.3 The Staff Member must not, without the University's written consent, deal with the Intellectual Property in a manner which is inconsistent with the provisions of this Deed.
3.0 LICENCE OF INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY - OTHER THAN THE INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY ASSIGNED UNDER CLAUSE 2.0
3.1 The Staff Member grants to the University a non-exclusive, royalty free, perpetual, irrevocable world wide licence (including the right to sub-license) to use, reproduce, adapt, exploit, distribute, broadcast, perform, communicate to the public or exercise any other rights in Intellectual Property created by the Staff Member, in respect of:
(a) Scholarly Works and/or Creative Works for educational and research purposes of the University or for the purposes of promoting the University, including after the Staff Member ceases to be Staff, subject to any assignment of the Intellectual Property in the Scholarly Work or Creative Work by the Staff Member to a publisher or recording company (if any) as specified in Item 1 of the Schedule; or  
(b) Educational Materials, as prescribed pursuant to section 6.3 of the Griffith University Intellectual Property Policy, for the education and research purposes of the University or for the purposes of promoting the University, including after the Staff Member ceases to be Staff,
and subject to the Staff Member's Moral Rights as prescribed in section 8.0 of the Griffith University Intellectual Property Policy.
4.0 COMMERCIALISATION OF THE INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY 
4.1 In respect of the Staff Member sharing in the Net Financial Proceeds (if any) arising from Commercialisation by the University, with all other joint creators or inventors, and any other parties whose ownership of Intellectual Property is governed by any contracts to which the University is bound, the Staff Member elects to share the Net Financial Proceeds as prescribed in sections 3.1 to 3.5 (as relevant) of the Griffith University Intellectual Property Procedures and as specified in Item 2 of the Schedule.
4.2 Where the Staff Member received payment under clause 4.1 of this Deed, that payment will be paid to the Staff Member in arrears on calendar quarters starting on the calendar quarter after the University received the first payment from which the Staff Member will receive a payment. A share in the Net Financial Proceeds to the Staff Member will continue for as long as the University receives Net Financial Proceeds arising from Commercialisation of the Intellectual Property under an agreement.
4.3 The Staff Member will be responsible for any personal tax implications as a result of payments or equity received pursuant to this clause 4.1.

5.0 REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES
5.1 The Staff Member represents and warrants that: 
(a) the Staff Member is a 'Staff' member within the meaning of the Griffith University Intellectual Property Policy;
(b) to the best of their knowledge the Staff Member has all the necessary rights and licences (including the right to sub-license) in the Intellectual Property to allow the University to assert its rights pursuant to clauses 2.1 and/or 3.1 of this Deed;
(c) the Staff Member has the rights and power to enter into, perform and observe his/her obligations under this Deed;
(d) to the best of their knowledge the exercise by the University of its rights under clauses 2.1 and/or 3.1 of this Deed does not and will not infringe the intellectual property rights of a third person;
(e) the Staff Member is not involved in any commercial activities that might conflict with the commercialisation of the Intellectual Property (as defined in the Appendix of the Griffith University Intellectual Property Policy) of the University;
(f) the Staff Member will immediately notify the Deputy Vice Chancellor (Research) if he/she becomes involved in any commercial activities that might conflict with the commercialisation of the Intellectual Property (as defined in the Appendix of the Griffith University Intellectual Property Policy) of the University;
(g) the Staff Member will maintain confidentiality in relation to the Intellectual Property; and
(h) subject to the University's obligations in section 8.0 of the Griffith University Intellectual Property Policy, the Staff Member agrees to waive, to the extent permissible at law, his/her Moral Rights in respect of the Intellectual Property and voluntarily and unconditionally consents to the University or persons authorised by the University doing, or omitting to do, with respect to the Intellectual Property, any act, including but not limited to:
(i) reproducing, publishing, communicating, performing or adapting the Intellectual Property without attributing its authorship to the Staff Member;
(ii) any alteration to or deletion from the Intellectual Property (including the relocation, demolition or destruction of the Intellectual Property, whether or not the alteration to or deletion from is prejudicial to the  Staff Member 's honour or reputation); or
(iii) dealing in any way with Intellectual Property which has been substantially altered; or reproducing the Intellectual Property which has been substantially altered, as the  Staff Member 's unaltered Work,
which would otherwise infringe the  Staff Member 's Moral Rights in the Intellectual Property.
6.0 GENERAL
6.1 Indemnity
The Staff Member will indemnify the University, its staff or agents against any loss suffered or incurred by the University including a third party claim against the University, its staff or agents arising from a breach of this Deed by the Staff Member.
6.2 Entire Deed
This Deed, together with the relevant Schedule that applies to the Staff Member, constitutes the entire agreement between the Parties. This Deed supersedes all previous written and oral agreements and understandings reached by the Parties regarding the assignment of Intellectual Property.
6.3 Provision of Intellectual Property
The Staff Member will, as soon as is reasonably possible following a request from the University, provide the University with a complete copy of all documentation (in any format) relating to the Intellectual Property for the University's own use, to meet record-keeping requirements of the University or to allow the University to assert its rights granted pursuant to this Deed.
6.4 Amendment
Alterations or variations of this Deed will not be valid unless in writing and signed by both Parties.
6.5 No Waiver
No rights under this Deed will be deemed to be waived except where the waiver is in writing and is signed by the University.
Any failure by the University to enforce any clause of this Deed or any forbearance, delay or indulgence granted by the University to the Staff Member, will not be construed as a waiver of the University's rights under this Deed.
6.6 Severability
Part or all of any provision of this Deed that is illegal or unenforceable may be severed from this Deed and the remaining provisions of this Deed continue in force.
6.7 Relationship
This Deed does not create a relationship of employment, agency or partnership between the Parties.

6.8 Governing law and jurisdiction
This Deed shall be governed and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Queensland, Australia. The parties submit unconditionally to the jurisdiction of the Courts of Queensland.
6.9 Execution
This Deed shall be effective once it is executed by the Staff Member, irrespective of whether it is executed by the University.

SCHEDULE 1

1.0 DEFINITIONS
1.1 "Intellectual Property" means the:
(a) Scholarly Works or Creative Works prescribed by section 5.1 of the Griffith University Intellectual Property Policy; and/or
(b) Educational Materials prescribed by section 6.2 of the Griffith University Intellectual Property Policy,
which contain the Intellectual Property as prescribed in section 3.0 of the Griffith University Intellectual Property Policy. 


THIS DEED OF ASSIGNMENT is made on the [insert day of the month] day of [insert month] [insert year].


BETWEEN:	Griffith University, a body corporate established by the Griffith University Act 1998, of Kessels Road, Nathan in the State of Queensland
("the University")

AND:		[insert name of Staff Member]
of [insert address of Staff Member]
("Staff Member") 
(each a "Party" and together "The Parties")

Item No.Clause No.Designate - Applicable or Not Applicable1.  Clause 3.1 - Licence of Intellectual Property
 Identification of third party rights[See User Guide for information on how to complete this entry] 

Applicable - [insert name of any publisher or recording company who may have rights in the Intellectual Property] 
or
Not Applicable2. Clause 4.1 - Staff Member 's Share of Net Financial Proceeds

(a)	Are you the sole inventor/author?  If not provide details of the other inventors/authors and the agreed distribution of Net Financial Proceeds. [See User Guide for information on how to complete this entry]] 

Sole Inventor
or
Joint Inventors:  (eg. John David Citizen (75%): Thomas Clancy Brown (25%)).(b)	Allocation of Net Financial Proceeds[See User Guide for information on how to complete this entry] 

EXECUTED as a DEED:


Signed by [insert name of Staff Member] in the presence of??Signature of witnessSignature of the Staff MemberName of witness (print)Date



Signed for GRIFFITH UNIVERSITY by an authorised officer in the presence of??Signature of witnessSignature of Pro Vice Chancellor (Administration)Name of witness (print)Name of Pro Vice Chancellor (Administration) (print)Date





BNE5_311446_2 (W2003)

Page 1
G:\AA\LLO\Proformas & Precedents\Deeds of Assignment\IP Assignment\IP Assignment from Staff to GU (IP Policy) (Protected Web Version 3Jul06).doc



1


BNE5_311446_2 (W2003)

