CONTROVERSY PERFORMANCE AGREEMENT

THIS STANDARD PERFORMANCE AGREEMENT is entered into between the parties identified below. In consideration for the following covenants, conditions and promises, the Venue identified below agrees to hire Controversy to perform an engagement and Controversy agrees to provide such performance services under the following term and conditions:
1. Details of Event.  
If any of the following are not applicable, please indicate "N/A".
VENUE/EVENT TITLEARTIST NAMECONTROVERSYDATE OF PERFORMANCETYPE OF PERFORMANCENAME OF CONTACTLOCATION OF VENUENUMBER & LENGTHS OF SETS
PAYMENT:

Total for band for the event
(Inclusive of all sound and lighting) will be

$

Cheque/Cash made payable to: Deposit of $1,000 to be made for any confirmation & balance to be paid before or on the day of performance by cash, cheque or direct deposit

ARRIVAL TIMELOAD IN TIMESOUND CHECK TIMETo be completed by SOUND PROVIDED BYLIGHTING PROVIDED BYCONTACT PERSONCONTACT NUMBEREMAIL ADDRESSDRINKS RIDER PROVIDED BY CLIENTMEALSTRANSPORTATION

2. Timing of Payment: 

If the Venue/Client receives a signed copy of this Agreement at least two (2) weeks before the Event, the Venue will provide payment to Controversy immediately following the Event. If not, the Venue/Client will organise with Controversy a suitable means of payment and time upon signing of this agreement in which Controversy have full rights to either accept or disagree upon manner and method of such payment. In certain circumstances the Venue/Client will be required to make a deposit of $1000 to secure a Controversy performance. 

3. Amount of Payment. 

Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, the Venue/Client shall pay to Controversy the amount indicated above as total payment for the Event. The Venue may withhold the whole or part of any payments to Controversy to such extent necessary to protect the Venue from loss due to injury or damage to Venue personnel or property or third parties caused by the negligent acts and omissions of Controversy, its employees and agents. 

4. Expenses for Lodging, Meals, and Transportation. 

The Venue's/Client reimbursement, if any, for Controversy's lodging, meals and transportation will be made before performance.

5. Sponsors. 

The Venue reserves the right to engage sponsors for the Event. Controversy may obtain sponsors for the Event; provided, however that the Venue/Client reserves the right to approve all such sponsorships in writing. 

6. Event Technical Requirements. 

If Controversy has requested that the Venue/Client supply sound equipment or stage lighting for the Event, the Venue will use its reasonable efforts to provide it. If the Venue/Client is unable to obtain the exact equipment or lighting Controversy requests, the Venue/Client and Controversy will work together to find suitable replacement equipment. The Venue does not warrant that the equipment requested by Controversy will be sufficient for Controversy's specific needs. The Venue/Client shall not be responsible for any equipment requests not specifically stated in an addendum, rider, or contract attached to this Agreement.

7. Advertising and Promotion of Event. 

The Venue/Client shall have complete control over advertising, billing and promotion of Event. Controversy agrees to furnish, at its own expense, advertising and promotional materials to the extent Controversy has such materials available for distribution. At a minimum, Controversy will include a publicity package with demo's and DVD video performance for distribution. Controversy hereby grants the Venue/Client the right to use Controversy's name, recorded voice, biographical materials, pictures, and likeness for advertising, promotion and publicity purposes in connection to the Event. Controversy shall not authorise or release any advertising or promotional materials relating to Event without the advance written consent of the Venue/Client. 

8. Control of Production. 

Controversy shall have control over the Event's production, presentation and artistic performance; provided, however, that Controversy shall not engage in any obscene behavior, nor shall Controversy encourage or entice patrons to engage in violent, destructive or riotous behavior. Controversy shall have authority in directing personnel operating lights and sound equipment during rehearsal and each performance. The Venue/Client retains the right to control all other aspects of the Event, including (i) sound levels and (ii) the right to stop the Event if, in the Venue's/Client's reasonable opinion, the audience is becoming uncontrollable. 

9. Reproduction of Performance. 

Neither party may broadcast, photograph nor record any portion of the Performance in any medium without the written consent of the other party. However, the Venue/Client shall be entitled to make an archival record of the Performance in any medium. The Venue/Client shall use reasonable efforts to deny entrance to any persons carrying audio or video recording devices, but the Venue/Client does not guarantee that recordings will not be made. 

10. Box Office Provisions. 

The Venue/Client shall have complete control over operation of the box office. The Venue/Client shall have the right to set ticket prices, to sell tickets at a discounted price, or to give away tickets, as the Venue/Client deems appropriate. 

11. Approval of Other Performers. 

The Venue/Client reserves the right to approve any other persons or acts to appear in conjunction with the Event and the right to determine the length and nature of their performances. The Venue/Client further reserves the right to have a master of ceremonies, welcoming speeches, introductions and/or ceremonies during intermission, at the Venue's/Client's sole discretion. 

12. Liability. 

The Venue/Client shall not be liable for lost profits, work stoppage, or any other special, indirect, or consequential damages of any kind. Controversy music holds public liability insurance of up to $10,000,000. (policy no. J0258)

13. Sale of Concessions by Controversy. 

Controversy shall comply with the Venue's/Client's regulations regarding sales of concessions, which include but are not limited to programs, T-shirts, posters, CD's, tapes, food and beverage. The Venue/Client in its sole discretion may refuse to allow the sale of any item provided by Controversy. Controversy shall not sell, distribute, dispense, advertise or promote any alcoholic or non-alcoholic beverages (or permit others to do the same) without the Venue's/Client's written consent, which consent the Venue/Client may withhold at its sole discretion. 

14. Cancellation of Event. 

The Event may be canceled at the mutual agreement of the parties. In addition, either party may cancel the Event if the other party materially breaches this Agreement and fails to cure said breach within a reasonable time after notice of breach. The Event may also be cancelled because of an act of God, public calamity, war, acts of terrorism, or other legitimate reasons beyond the party's control ("Event of Force Majeure"). If the Venue/Client cancels the Event for a reason other than for Controversy's breach or an Event of Force Majeure or if Controversy cancels the Event because of the Venue's breach, the Venue's total liability to Controversy shall not exceed the Amount of Payment stated above and any non-refundable expenses actually incurred by Artist. In no event shall the Venue/Client be liable for any indirect, consequential, incidental, lost profits or like expectancy damages arising out of this Agreement. If the Venue/Client cancels the Event for Controversy's breach or if Controversy cancels the Event for a reason other than the Venue's/Client's breach or an Event of Force Majeure, the Venue shall be entitled to collect from Controversy all reasonable expenses incurred in connection with the Event. Neither party shall be responsible for any delays or failure to perform any obligation under this Agreement due to an Event of Force Majeure. 

15. Parking. 

Unless otherwise provided in this Agreement, Controversy shall be responsible for parking its vehicles and for securing its vehicles. The Venue/Client shall not be liable for damages to Controversy's vehicles or contents within its vehicles unless such damage is caused by the Venue's/Client's employees or agents. 

16. Assignment. 

Neither party may assign its rights under this Agreement without the prior written consent of the other party, which consent the other party may grant or withhold at its sole discretion. 

17. Notices. 

All notices required by this Agreement shall be in writing and shall either be delivered personally, by certified mail, facsimile or E-mail to the parties at the addresses listed in the initial paragraph of this Agreement. 

18. Partial Invalidity of Agreement. 

If any portion of this Agreement is deemed invalid or unenforceable by any court because it is unenforceable as written, such provisions shall be deemed revised to make it valid and enforceable to the maximum extent permitted by law. If the invalid or unenforceable clause cannot be so revised, it shall be stricken from this Agreement but the remaining provisions of this Agreement shall not be affected by such invalidity or unenforceability. 

19. Independent Contractor Status. 

Controversy is an independent contractor and not an employee, agent or partner of the Venue/Client. Controversy shall not have legal authority to bind the Venue/Client in any way. 

20. Waiver. 

Neither party's failure to strictly enforce the terms of the Agreement on one occasion shall be deemed waiver by that party of the right to strictly enforce the terms of the Agreement in the future. 

21. Amendments.

 Any changes or amendments to this Agreement must be in writing, initialed and dated by both parties to be valid. 

22. Authority to Execute Agreements. 

The persons signing this Agreement on behalf of Controversy and the Venue/Client represent and warrant that they have the legal authority to sign this Agreement and to obligate Controversy and the Venue/Client to the covenants and conditions of this Agreement. 

23. This Agreement Prevails in the Event of Conflict with Controversy's Contract or the Venue's/Client's Rider. To the extent that any of the terms and conditions contained in Controversy's contract or any other addendum or riders provided by Controversy, or his/her agent, contradict any of the terms of this Agreement, or impose additional obligations upon the Venue/Client, the Venue/Client expressly rejects such contradictory or additional terms and Controversy agrees by signing below that the terms contained in this Agreement shall control.  
 
 
Controversy Signature:			Venue/ Client Signature:

Name:		Adrian Corti			Name:		 

Title:  		Manager			Title: 		

Date:						Date:		




						 
Page No. 1

