

Bringing knowledge to life

Pro Forma Short Form Consulting Proposal
(for projects less than $50,000)



Project Description


Name of Project

Project ManagersClientUWSName:Telephone:Mobile Phone:Facsimile:Email:

Expected Start DateExpected Completion Date

Agreed scope / services to be provided




Total PriceExcluding GSTIncluding GST

Milestones and Payments




Client Inputs and Timing




Frequency of Work in Progress Meetings




TERMS AND CONDITIONS


Terms for UWS Minor Consultancies
Consultancy Services

1. UWS will use reasonable endeavours to provide the services and the deliverables described in the annexed UWS letter of offer and project description at the required dates.

2. UWS may sub-contract provision of the services or deliverables.

3. If the parties have agreed in writing that named personnel will provide the services, UWS will use reasonable endeavours to make those personnel available.

4. The services or deliverables, and the applicable fee, can only be changed by written agreement between the parties.  

5. Unless otherwise agreed in writing, UWS may provide similar or identical services or deliverables to a third party.

Client Inputs

6. The Client will provide the Client Inputs at the dates specified in the annexed UWS letter of offer and project description, and agrees that delay in providing client inputs may result in delay in UWS providing services or deliverables.

Payment

7. The Client will pay UWS the Fee in the annexed UWS letter of offer and project description. UWS will, on request, provide the Client with a tax invoice.  The Fee is inclusive of any GST which may be payable in relation to the services and deliverables, in accordance with A New Tax System (Goods and Services Tax) Act 1999, as amended.  If agreed in writing, UWS may also charge the client for specified costs of providing services or deliverables.

Ownership of Deliverables

8. The deliverables and all intellectual property in the deliverables remains the property of UWS until the client has paid all the Fee, taxes and costs.  

Ownership of Intellectual Property

9.	All UWS existing intellectual property remains the property of UWS.  Subject to clause 8, UWS provides the client with a licence to use existing intellectual property only to the extent that such a licence is necessary for use of the deliverables for the intended purpose.  

10. Subject to clause 8, new intellectual property in the services deliverables becomes the property of the client other than any new intellectual property in the services or deliverables unrelated to the purpose for which the services or deliverables are intended by the client, which will be treated by the client as confidential will remain the sole and exclusive intellectual property of UWS.  

11. So far as new intellectual property in the services or deliverables belongs to the client, the client grants UWS an irrevocable and perpetual licence to utilize the intellectual property in the services or deliverables for the purposes of publication, research or education.  

Confidentiality

12. The parties agree not to disclose this agreement or any confidential information except with written consent of the other party, or as required by law.

Risks

13. The University excludes all warranties other than that it will carry out the services to professional standards appropriate to the nature of the services.  Except as required by statute, UWS has no liability under this agreement.  The client accepts the services and deliverables at its own risk.  The client indemnifies UWS against any claim by a third party for any injury or loss whether arising directly or indirectly or as a consequence of the services or deliverables, or their use by the client.  The client will obtain and hold insurance insuring the client in respect of any injury or loss that may arise from its use of the deliverables or reliance on the services.

Disputes

14.	The parties agree to attempt to resolve any dispute by timely negotiation, including by reference to personnel with authority to settle the dispute, before referring the dispute to any external party. If the dispute relates to a discrepancy in the services or deliverables the parties shall agree in writing as to the discrepancies in the services and the rectification to be provided by UWS.  If a dispute is not resolved within 20 working days of notice being issued by a party of the existence of a dispute, the dispute may be referred to a court, or, if agreed by the parties, to some other form of alternative dispute resolution.

Where this Agreement can be enforced

15. This agreement is governed by the law of New South Wales and the parties submit to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of the courts of New South Wales.

This is the Whole Agreement

16. This agreement is the entire agreement between the parties and displaces all prior agreements, negotiations and representations in respect of its subject matter.

Headings

17. Headings do not form part of this agreement.

Waiver

18. A waiver of any rights or obligations under this agreement will only be effective if agreed in writing.  Forbearance by a party in enforcing its rights will not prevent the party later enforcing its rights, even if the defaulting party relied on that forbearance.  A waiver of one term of this agreement will not effect the enforceability other terms of this agreement.

Changing this Agreement

19. This agreement may only be amended by agreement in writing between the parties.

Unforeseen or Uncontrollable Events

20. Neither party shall be liable for a delay or failure in performing this agreement if it is due to an act of God, a decision or act of government, a natural disaster, fire, flood, strike, lock-out, civil disturbance, terrorist act, war or conflict short of war, or other event beyond the reasonable control of the party which prevents performance.  However the parties shall use their best endeavours to expeditiously resume performing their obligations once it is possible to do so.

Logos, Names, Trademarks, Endorsement

21. Neither party can use the names, logos or trademarks of the other without the prior written consent of the other.  Unless otherwise agreed in writing, the client shall not represent that UWS endorses the client or its products or services.

Any unenforceable provisions will be separated from the agreement

22. If a provision or part of a provision of this agreement is unenforceable, the parties agree to sever it from this agreement and that remaining provisions have full effect.

Written agreement required for assignment

23. Rights under this Agreement may not be assigned except by written agreement between the parties.



Relationship Between the Parties

24. Each party is an independent contractor.  This agreement does not constitute a partnership or agency between the parties and neither party shall represent that it has authority to act on behalf of or bind the other.

Surviving clauses termination

25. Clauses 8 to 15 survive termination of this agreement and remain in effect.

Inconsistency

26. If there is an inconsistency between these terms and conditions and the annexed UWS letter of offer and project description, these terms and conditions shall take precedence. 

Definitions

In this Agreement:

"Agreement" means these terms, together with the annexed UWS letter of offer and project description. 

"Confidential information" means this agreement, all information notified at or prior to communication of the information to the other party as being confidential and information referred to in clause 10, other than information already in the public domain.

"Intended purpose" means only the primary purpose inherent in the nature of the deliverables and services in the context of the intended use the client is able to prove was its intention as at the time of entry into this agreement.

"Existing Intellectual Property" means Intellectual Property created prior to or separately from performance of this agreement.

"Intellectual Property" means all statutory and other proprietary rights, and rights to apply for statutory recognition, including in respect of patents, copyright, designs, plant varieties, circuit layouts, trademarks, know how and confidential information.  

"New Intellectual Property" means Intellectual Property brought into being in the creation of the deliverables or performance services, other than Existing Intellectual Property.

"Rectification" means agreed correction of a defect in a service or deliverable to bring it into conformance with the service or deliverable described in the annexed project description.


A1539 - pro forma short consulting proposal.doc		1

