Scoping Agreement for Victorian Regional Forest Agreements between the Commonwealth of Australia and the State of Victoria
Preamble 
1. The purpose of this Scoping Agreement is to confirm the intention of the Commonwealth and Victorian Governments to proceed to the negotiation of Regional Forest Agreements (RFAs) for the East Gippsland, Central Highlands, North East, Gippsland and Western regions, and to establish processes and timetables for their completion. 
1.1. The provisions of this Agreement are not intended to give rise to legally enforceable rights or obligations between the Commonwealth and Victoria. 
1.2. The Commonwealth and Victoria note that, in: 
(a) entering into this Agreement; 
(b) imposing on Victoria obligations with respect to the carrying out of the projects, studies, analyses and processes necessary to enable the parties to negotiate a RFA for each region incorporating the matters set out in clause 4 of this Agreement; and 
(c) negotiating the terms of each RFA, 
the Commonwealth must, for the purposes of Commonwealth actions and decisions arising from this Agreement 
(d) apply to each State, and to each forest region within a State, the same standards with respect to forest management and environmental, heritage, economic and social targets to be achieved; 
(e) allow for differences in the obligations to be imposed on different States, under this Agreement and corresponding scoping agreements with other States, and also under the RFAs to be concluded with each State (including differences in the dates by which those obligations are to be fulfilled) only to the extent that those differences are necessary to take account of: 
(i) differences in the forest types represented in individual forest regions and in the environmental, economic and social pressures on those regions; and 
(ii) differences in the level and quality of information, and of analysis of that information, about those forest regions that is available to the parties at the time of entering into this Agreement; and 
(f) apply to each State, and in respect of each region within a State, the same standards with respect to the level of compliance by a State that will be taken to constitute 'significant progress' towards the completion of an RFA. 
1.3. Each clause of this Agreement is to be read subject to clause 1.2, whether an express reference to clause 1.2 is included in the text of the clause or not. 
2. The Commonwealth and Victoria agree that this Scoping Agreement and each RFA negotiated will be consistent (including with respect to the definition of terms) with the National Forest Policy Statement (NFPS) and, consistent with clause 1.2, other relevant agreements and policies including the National Strategy for Ecologically Sustainable Development (NSESD) and the Intergovernmental Agreement on the Environment (IGAE). The Commonwealth and Victoria recognise that this Agreement, and each RFA negotiated, cannot impose on a party hereto or any other third party any obligation that is inconsistent with a law of the Commonwealth or of Victoria where that law is binding upon that party hereto or that third party. 
Objectives 
3. The Commonwealth and Victorian Governments believe that the long-term ecologically sustainable management of forests and the development of competitive and efficient forest industries are compatible objectives and therefore they are committed to providing a basis for these objectives in the regions covered by this Agreement, thereby ensuring the protection of conservation values, the basis for an internationally competitive forest products industry, and the effective use of other economic and social resources of each region. 
4. Subject to clause 1.2, the Commonwealth and Victorian Governments agree to negotiate RFAs incorporating environmental, economic and social considerations that will: 
(a) define and describe the means for conserving those forest areas (excluding plantations) needed to form a comprehensive, adequate and representative (CAR) reserve system; 
(b) define those forest areas available for securing sustainable commercial use of forests; 
(c) accredit codes of forest practice, including the process for continued improvement of these codes, and other management arrangements for forests within RFA boundaries; 
(d) identify forest resource use and sustainable industry development options and examine any potential economic and social implications, including on communities, of these options; 
(e) identify the region's forestry and other industry potential; 
(f) address biodiversity and threatened species issues; 
(g) address heritage issues; 
(h) identify performance indicators and develop monitoring arrangements to enable a detailed assessment and report on the indicators and of the performance of this Agreement every 5 years; and 
(i) identify a mechanism to enable updating of each RFA in light of significant new information or exceptional circumstances. 
Regional Forest Agreement 
5. On the signing of this Scoping Agreement, the Commonwealth Government, undertakes to fulfil its obligations with respect to the processes and milestones as set out in Attachments 1 & 2 for the development of RFAs. 
5.1. On the signing of this Scoping Agreement, the Victorian Government, undertakes to fulfil its obligations with respect to the processes and milestones as set out in Attachments 1 & 2 for the development of RFAs. 
5.2. This Scoping Agreement commits the Governments and relevant agencies to undertake the necessary assessments to meet both Governments' statutory and policy obligations within the timeframe as outlined at Attachment 2. The Governments and relevant agencies agree that the studies and processes outlined in Attachment 1 will constitute the full assessment of identified values for the purposes of negotiating each RFA. The Governments further agree to cooperate actively to meet the overall program milestones outlined in Attachment 2 and that the timetable and outcomes in Attachments 1 & 2 may be varied by mutual consent. 
6. Both Governments agree to the formation of a joint Commonwealth and State: 
(a) Steering Committee to direct and coordinate the RFA process, approve projects, agree on the ownership of all data and priorities for data exchange, to resolve issues in dispute, to approve all written reports of the project and develop and implement a public consultation strategy to meet stakeholder and community expectations and the statutory requirements of each Government. 
(b) Technical Committee to review data, identify gaps, develop and implement methodologies and projects, monitor progress and ensure appropriate standards of information and data gathering and storage and to recommend to the Steering Committee appropriate projects and studies, their costs and completion dates. 
7. Both governments agree that for Victoria to achieve significant progress for the purposes of the Commonwealth's export woodchip policy, it will be necessary for Victoria to comply with this Agreement, in particular to adhere to the milestones in Attachment 2 of this Agreement, and to comply with the terms of the Interim Forest Agreement. Each Government further undertakes to consider expeditiously any request from the other Government to vary these nominated milestones and, subject to clause 1.2, to not unreasonably withhold its approval of any variations to the milestones or outcomes consistent with the objectives of this Agreement. 
Definition of the Region 
8. This scoping agreement applies to the regions shown on the map at Attachment 3. In developing the RFA which shall apply to each of these regions, regard will be given to native forest on public land and where necessary and appropriate to native forest on private land. Both parties further agree to develop an order of priority for assessing those regions. 
9. To capture the full economic and social context for the RFAs, additional areas will be included in the assessment process leading to the RFAs as necessary. Economic and social implications of RFA options beyond the defined boundary will be taken into consideration in the assessment and planning process and in the discussions concerning mitigation of any adverse impacts. 
Private Landholder Participation 
10. In respect of private land both Governments undertake to encourage and facilitate the active participation of all land owners. 
Interim Conservation Arrangements 
11. Both Governments agree to abide by the commitments as set out in the Interim Forest Agreement signed by the Prime Minister and Premier of Victoria on [Date]. 
Ecologically Sustainable Forest Management 
12. The Commonwealth and Victoria agree that ecologically sustainable forest management will require a variety of mechanisms, including: the implementation of a comprehensive, adequate and representative (CAR) reserve system, complementary off-reserve management, appropriate codes of forest practice and management plans. Both Governments recognise that an important and integral part of this process is the consideration of economic and social factors in determining and implementing such mechanisms. The Governments agree to prepare the necessary documents including performance indicators as an integral part of each RFA. 
13. The Governments agree that a CAR reserve system will be developed and implemented as part of the RFA as set out in clause 4 of this Agreement. Both Governments agree to work with other States, including through the JANIS process toward national CAR reserve criteria using both the Commonwealth's position paper of July 1995 and the NFPS. 
14. While recognising that Victoria has prime statutory responsibility for forest management, both Governments agree to consider jointly the conservation arrangements applicable to both reserves and production areas of forests covered by this agreement as part of the RFA. 
15. In relation to forests covered by RFAs negotiated under this Agreement, the Commonwealth will provide assistance for conservation outcomes including, but not limited to consideration of: 
(a) surveys to fill key information gaps; 
(b) implementation of recovery plans for threatened species and threat abatement plans for threatening processes; 
(c) monitoring the performance against biodiversity criteria; 
(d) implementation and funding of conservation agreements with private landholders; and 
(e) establishment of management regimes for new forest reserves. 
Internationally Competitive and Efficient Industries 
16. The Commonwealth and Victorian Governments agree that the achievement of an internationally competitive and efficient wood and wood products industry would require, over the duration of the RFA Agreements, consideration of: 
(a) resource quality and quantity; 
(b) domestic and international market opportunities ; 
(c) industry development plans; and 
(d) investment opportunities. 
17. In addition to the assistance outlined in clause 15 above, the Commonwealth will provide assistance through its Wood and Paper Industry Strategy and, where necessary, the Structural Adjustment Package, to facilitate implementation of RFA outcomes. The nature and level of any such assistance will be discussed by both Governments during the course of the RFA in light of economic and social assessments. 
18. Consistent with the NFPS and Competition Principles Agreement signed on 11 April 1995, Victoria agrees to establish by July 1996 a timetable for review (including reporting) of pricing and allocation policies for commercial government owned forestry operations. 
Indigenous Issues 
19. Both governments undertake to consult fully with indigenous communities on all aspects of the RFAs consistent with the requirements of State and Commonwealth legislation. 
Accreditation 
20. It is the objective of both parties that, to the maximum extent possible, data sets and processes be jointly accredited for the purposes of the development, monitoring and assessment of the RFAs and to satisfy the requirements for associated State and Commonwealth statutory assessments (e.g. the Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act 1974 (the EP(IP) Act)). This will require that: 
(a) both Governments jointly develop a list of processes that meet both Governments' purposes in the RFA process. Wherever existing processes, or processes developed for the RFAs, meet those purposes, they will be accredited; 
(b) both Governments develop a list of standard data items, data quality assurance standards, criteria and guidelines to describe the data necessary to meet both Governments' purposes in the RFA process. Wherever existing data, or data to be produced for the RFAs, meet these purposes, those data will be accredited; 
(c) both Governments acknowledge that access to electronic and hard copy data (both existing and new data created as part of the RFA process) will be a critical element in the undertaking of a data audit and comprehensive regional assessments within the agreed timeframe. Therefore, subject to any statutory constraints, each Government agrees to exchange and provide open access to the other, to the data required for the purposes of developing RFAs and the assessment of their performance, under arrangements agreed by the Steering Committee, and that both Governments will have access to all source data in order to verify and accredit data and data products for use in the RFA process; and 
(d) both Governments agree that each can utilise data owned by the other for the purposes of the RFAs and their respective statutory obligations relating to the RFAs. Both Governments also agree that all data used in the project: 
(i) remains the exclusive property of the agreed owner or owners. Where these data are subject to commercial and other confidentiality, copyright or previous contractual arrangements, appropriate standards of use will be negotiated (including data arrangements) where this is legally possible so as to protect the interests of affected parties; 
(ii) will not be used by any party to this Agreement who is not the agreed owner of the data other than for the purposes of the RFAs; and 
(iii) will not be communicated to any other person without the express permission of the agreed owner. 
21. Notwithstanding clause 20 above, both Governments agree, subject to any statutory constraints and the concurrence of the Steering Committee, to make available derived data and derived information sets to inform stakeholders at agreed key consultation stages during the course of negotiations on the RFAs. The Steering Committee will consider expeditiously any request which it receives for the release of information. 
22. Prior to the signing of an RFA, the responsible agencies will lodge a copy, electronic where possible, of the relevant information products used in the RFA process (including intermediate products) with the Commonwealth and Victoria, unless this is prevented through provisions of relevant Commonwealth and State legislation, including legislation relating to indigenous issues. 
23. Where the Commonwealth contributes funds for data collection or collation, the new and enhanced data will be considered jointly owned and Victoria agrees to provide these data to the Commonwealth electronically in map and tabular form as appropriate. 
Duration, Monitoring and Exceptional Circumstances 
24. Both Governments aim to develop RFAs that will operate for 20 years. Both Governments agree to identify appropriate performance indicators to measure RFA outcomes and to develop monitoring arrangements and to report on those indicators and the performance of each RFA every 5 years. Both Governments also agree prior to the signing of each RFA, to identify exceptional circumstances which could influence those RFA outcomes significantly and which would require a reassessment and amendment of each RFA before its due expiry date. 
Duration of Scoping Agreement 
25. This Agreement commences from the date of signature by both Governments and remains in force until 30 June 2000 or until a Regional Forest Agreement is in force in each of the regions covered by this Agreement, whichever occurs first. Any variations to this Agreement must be agreed in writing between both Governments and added to this Agreement by way of attachment. 
25.1. Where a Regional Forest Agreement is in force in a particular region of the State, the terms of that Regional Forest Agreement supersede the provisions of this Agreement in that region. 
Funding 
26. Both Governments agree that budget and cost sharing arrangements for all assessments required for the RFAs will be mutually agreed with an objective of matching contributions in funding and in kind. 
Signed for and on behalf of each of the Parties by: 
The Honourable Paul John Keating MP )
Prime Minister of the Commonwealth of Australia, )
on the th day of January 1996 ) 
in the presence of 
The Honourable Jeff Kennett MLA )
Premier of the State of Victoria, )
on the th day of January 1996 ) 
in the presence of 
ATTACHMENT 1 
COMPREHENSIVE REGIONAL ASSESSMENTS (CRAs) 
1. The Governments recognise each other's statutory, international and policy responsibilities in regard to forests. For the purposes of each Regional Forest Agreement (RFA), both Governments agree to undertake jointly the following regional assessments: 
(a) Biodiversity 
This assessment will identify elements of biodiversity at the species and ecosystem levels, and will review key disturbances and threatening processes (eg: fire, feral animals and weeds). The outputs from this assessment will be used to develop options for a CAR reserve system that samples biodiversity in accordance with agreed Commonwealth/State criteria and as input to ecologically sustainable forest management practices in off-reserve system areas. 
Outputs will specifically include: 
A data audit report that summarises available information on species, ecosystems/communities, and threatening processes and identifies gaps where additional data collection is required; 
Collection of point location and selected habitat data for flora and fauna and site attributes for defining forest ecosystems and communities; 
Analysis of data to generate forest ecosystems and communities and modelled distributions of flora and fauna species, including an analysis of the performance of data layers as biodiversity surrogates; and 
Inclusion of biodiversity elements in conservation options reports that: 
- develop options for a CAR reserve system; 
- develop management prescriptions for priority species, threatening processes and forest ecosystems and communities in off-reserve areas; and 
- provide recommendations and project outlines for on-going survey and research for inclusion in an RFA. 
(b) Old growth 
This assessment will map the areal extent of old growth forest so that the criteria for reservation of old growth can be applied. Outputs will include a full report of the method used, a description of the disturbance categories; maps of the Ecological Vegetation Classes (EVCs), forest growth stages, disturbance classes and old growth at a consistent scale (1:100000); and equivalent digital data covering the entire study area. 
(c) Wilderness 
Using the Australian Heritage Commission wilderness methodology this project will update the National Wilderness Inventory (NWI) analysis in the region to allow the delineation of places with high wilderness quality utilising improved disturbance information from old growth forest survey and cultural heritage assessments. Additional information such as better definition of current roading will be incorporated into the analysis. Outputs will be a map of all areas with wilderness quality and size above agreed thresholds; a map of areas of wilderness quality within the region identifying rational boundaries for protection of wilderness values; and rational boundaries options for wilderness areas. 
(d) Endangered species 
This assessment will, to the extent possible within available funds and resources, prepare recovery plans for identified forest species, and Threat Abatement Plans for identified threatening processes listed under the Commonwealth Endangered Species Protection Act 1992. It will also identify State listed forest species, and, to the extent possible within available funds and resources, implement planning mechanisms in accordance with relevant State legislation. Key outputs will be programs for recovery plans for species and Threat Abatement Plans for key threatening processes listed under the Commonwealth ESP Act; and action statements, prescriptions and other planning mechanisms for State listed species. 
(e) National Estate values 
This assessment will identify, asses and document national estate values, including natural and cultural heritage in Victoria to satisfy Commonwealth obligations under the Australian Heritage Commission Act 1975. To the extent possible, this identification will be undertaken jointly by the AHC and Victoria in accordance with the criteria for identifying places (Subsection 4(1A) of the AHC Act). Regional variations in values identified and methodologies utilised may occur in response to the availability and format of data, but, to the extent possible, will be jointly agreed between the AHC and Victoria. 
Outputs will include identification, delineation and mapping of national estate values and places; assessment of current levels of protection and identification of conservation principles for the protection of national estate values and places; documentation of agreed methodologies; and documentation sufficient to allow for interim listing on the Register of the National Estate, as appropriate. 
(f) World Heritage values 
This assessment will allow the Commonwealth to meet its obligations arising both from it being a State Party to the World Heritage Convention and from its own statutory requirements as set out in the World Heritage Properties Conservation Act 1983. The output from this assessment will be an assessment of World Heritage values of the forested areas of Victoria. 
(g) Indigenous Heritage 
This assessment will identify indigenous cultural heritage values within forested areas of the region and will allow both Governments to meet their obligations in relation to native title rights and interests under Commonwealth and State legislation. Outputs will include identification of areas which are of significance to indigenous groups within a region; documentation of areas which are culturally significant to these groups, according to State heritage legislation and national estate criteria in a format which suits the requirements of both governments and which respects the confidentiality of information regarding areas of Aboriginal significance; assessment of current levels of protection and identification of conservation principles, including on-going consultation with relevant Aboriginal communities; and assessment of Aboriginal community attitudes to forest use. 
(h) Social values 
This assessment will develop methods and data and analyse the quantitative and qualitative effects on communities of forest use options considered in the development of an RFA. The main outputs will be agreed data and methods and an assessment of the options. (Examples are given in Table 2, page 12 of the Commonwealth Economic and Social Assessment discussion paper.) 
(i) Economic values and industry development opportunities in the forested areas 
This assessment will develop methods and data and analyse the economic effects of forest use options considered in the development of a RFA. It will cover issues such as resource availability and sustainability and economic opportunities for forest production including mining, mineral exploration, water production, tourism, and potential for plantation establishment. 
It will also develop methods and data to undertake an assessment of industry development and infrastructure options flowing from forested land use options considered in the development of a RFA, and to determine likely economic implications of those options. 
Outputs will be an evaluation of the nature of the forest resource (size, quality spatial distribution of products); the current and potential uses of forests and forested land within the Region; sustainability of production flows over time for identified uses/products (including water, recreation) under a range of management regimes and intensities; economic value of products; and the structure and regional significance of the forest products and other industries such as mining and tourism; and industry development and infrastructure options, including resource, infrastructure and policy requirements for the establishment of a range of industries and the resource potential for extending the plantation estate. These outputs will be based on agreed data and evaluation methods. 
(j) Ecologically sustainable management. 
This assessment will be seeking to evaluate ecologically sustainable management in the regions through appropriate reserve and off-reserve management. It will rely to a large extent on other assessments. Outputs will include review and revision as necessary of forest management systems for native forests to an agreed standard and consistent with the National Forest Policy Statement; agreed baseline environmental standards for forest management; agreement to a future work program for continuing evaluation, review and improvement of management systems; and agreement to projects for information collection and scientific evaluation of management systems. 
Consultation and Communication Strategy 
2. Both Governments recognise that effective community involvement is critical to the successful completion and enduring life of an RFA and therefore agree to prepare and implement a consultation and communication strategy. 
Administrative arrangements 
3. Both Governments agree to establish the joint Commonwealth - Victoria Steering and Technical Committees as soon as possible. 
4. Both Governments agree that any scientific matters on which agreement can not be reached, will be referred to a Joint Scientific Advisory Group (JSAG) at the discretion of the Steering Committee. The JSAG will report back to the Steering Committee. Both Governments recognise that referral of matters to the JSAG may have implications for meeting agreed project timelines and significant progress milestones. 
Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act 1974 
5. The decision of the Commonwealth to engage in a process leading to RFAs with Victoria will be required to undergo environmental impact assessment under the Administrative Procedures of the Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act 1974. The Commonwealth and the State agree to define a joint or cooperative environmental impact assessment of the draft RFA(s) which is in accordance with the principles of the draft national agreement on environmental impact assessment and meets the statutory requirements of both Governments. 
6. The Comprehensive Regional Assessments will address matters that require considerations under the Administrative Procedures. Both Governments agree that the public consultation strategy jointly developed for the purpose of the RFA will be consistent with the Administrative Procedures of the Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act 1974 and State procedures. 
Stages of the RFA 
7. Both Governments agree to jointly conduct the following steps as part of each RFA: 
(a) project planning including data audit and evaluation identifying the scope of the additional technical work required, and the relative contributions by the Victorian and Commonwealth Governments. The indicative timelines in Attachment 2 will need to be revisited in the light of detailed planning. Accreditation will be achieved progressively through the assessment process, and additional data audit and evaluation as required; 
(b) filling of data gaps and developing agreed methodologies for assessment;. 
(c) assessment phase; 
(d) evaluation of forest use options based on the results of the assessments listed at paragraph 1 of this Attachment (this work may be undertaken partly in parallel to other assessments); 
(e) production and release for public comment of a draft RFA report which integrates the conclusions of the environmental, heritage, economic and social regional assessments and ecologically sustainable management, and which is consistent with the requirements of the EP(IP) Act; 
(f) Finalise RFA for each region. 
ATTACHMENT 2 
SIGNIFICANT PROGRESS MILESTONES 
Introduction 
1. In agreeing to the following milestones, both Governments acknowledge that circumstances, including, but not restricted to funding delays and deliberations of the Joint Scientific Advisory Group, may result in milestones not being met. In such circumstances, the parties agree to jointly revise those milestones as soon as it is evident that a delay will occur. 
2. Both Governments agree that prior to the end of each year of this Agreement, (beginning in 1996), they will jointly approve a list of milestones for the subsequent year. That list of milestones will be publicly available and will be attached to this Agreement. 
1996 Milestones 
3. Both Governments agree to the following preliminary milestones, to be achieved before the end of 1996, acknowledging that these may be reviewed at the completion of the project planning, data audit and evaluation. Both parties acknowledge that these milestones, subject to any variation, will be used for determining significant progress as per clause 7 of the scoping agreement: 
completion of data audit, evaluation and accreditation for all regions 
completion of an RFA for the East Gippsland region 
completion of an old growth assessment in North-East region 
for the Central Highlands region: 
- complete a joint AHC/CNR national estate study; and 
- publish a draft FMA plan 
for the Western region: 
- commence CRA projects in the Midlands FMA 
- commence Box/Ironbark forests study 
- publish a draft Midlands FMA plan 
- complete sustainable yield review for the Midland region 
commence CRA projects in the Gippsland region. 
ATTACHMENT 3
