(INSERT NAME OF INITIATIVE)
INCOMING SPONSORSHIP AGREEMENT
DATE[insert]
PARTIESSTATE OF QUEENSLAND ACTING THROUGH THE DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION AND TRAINING ABN 76 337 613 647
30 Mary Street, Brisbane, Queensland, 4000

Contact: [insert]
Position: [insert]
Telephone: [insert]
Facsimile: [insert]
Email: [insert]
	("the State")[Insert name of sponsored organisation and ACN/ABN]
[Insert address]

Contact: [insert]
Position: [insert]
Telephone: [insert]
Facsimile: [insert]
Email: [insert]
	("the Organisation")STATE'S DELEGATE[insert name and position]ORGANISATION'S DELEGATE[insert name and position]TOTAL PAYMENT (I.E. SPONSORSHIP FEE AND THE VALUE OF THE IN-KIND SUPPORT)* $[specify cash value of sponsorship (excl. GST)]
* [specify in-kind support and the cash value of this in-kind support.] [Specify if no in-kind support.]
DESCRIPTIONThe Organisation is providing sponsorship to the State for the Initiative. The Organisation has agreed to sponsor the Initiative in accordance with the following terms and conditions.




SIGNING
Signed for and on behalf of State of Queensland acting through the Department of Education and Training by a person duly authorised to act on its behalf in the presence of:


Signature
Signature of Witness



Name of Witness in full
[signing clause for a company]



Signed for and on behalf of the Organisation in accordance with s 127 of the Corporations Act 2001
Signature - Director
Signature of Witness





Signature - Director / Company Secretary (please indicate)


Name of Witness in full


The Common Seal of the Organisation was hereto affixed by authority of the Management Committee in accordance with the Organisation's Constitution
and signed by ................................[write full name] a Member of the Management Committee
_________________________________________
and countersigned by........................[write full name], the Secretary/a member of Management Committee)


[signing clause for an unincorporated association 




SIGNED for and on behalf the Organisation by authority of the Management Committee 
by ................................[write full name] a Member of the Management Committee
_________________________________________
and countersigned by........................[write full name], the Secretary/a member of Management Committee)











1. Definitions and Interpretation
1.1 In this Agreement unless the context otherwise requires:
"Agreement" means this agreement, any amendments permitted by this agreement and any schedules (including footnotes), annexures, and attachments to any schedule to this agreement.
"Advertising Materials" includes any material used by the State to promote, advertise or report on the Initiative including television, cinema, radio and print commercials, audio visual aids, slogans, catch phrases, lyrics, jingles, videos, point of sale material and media coverage.
"Business Day" means any day except Saturday, Sunday and a public holiday in Queensland.
"Commencement Date" means the date the last Party to this Agreement signs this Agreement.
"Confidential Information" means in relation to a Party, information that:
(a) is by its nature confidential;
(b) is designated by that Party as confidential; or
(c) the other Party knows or ought to know is confidential,
and includes:
(d) information comprised in or relating to any Intellectual Property Rights of the Party;
(e) information relating to the internal management and structure of the Party or the personnel, policies and strategies of the Party;
(f) information of the Party to which the other Party has access that has any actual or potential commercial value to the first Party or to the person or corporation which supplied that information;
(g) in the case of the Organisation, information relating to the policies, strategies, practices and procedures of the State; and
(h) information in the Party's possession relating to the other Party's clients or suppliers and like information,
but does not include information which: 
(i) is or becomes, without a breach of confidentiality, public knowledge; or
(j) forms part of the Organisation's general skill and knowledge.
"Development Environment" means the location at which the materials are conceptualised, designed or drafted whether electronically or otherwise.
"Discloser" means the Party providing or disclosing Confidential Information. 
"Force Majeure" means a circumstance beyond the reasonable control of a Party, which results in that Party being unable to perform an obligation on time, and is limited to:
(a) natural events like fire, flood or earthquake;
(b) national emergency;
(c) terrorist act; or
(d) war.
"GST" means any tax, levy, charge or impost implemented under the GST Act.
"GST Act" means A New Tax System (Goods & Services Tax) Act 1999 (Cth) and any amendments to that Act.
"Initiative" means the initiative described in Item 1 of Schedule 1.
"In-Kind Support" means the provision by the Organisation to the State of goods or services other than the Sponsorship Fee as set out on the first page of this Agreement (if any).
"Intellectual Property Rights" includes all present and future rights in relation to copyright, trade marks, designs, patents, trade, business or company names, trade secret, confidential or other proprietary rights, or any rights to registration of such rights whether created before or after the Commencement Date, and whether existing in Australia or otherwise.
"Milestone" means a milestone specified in Schedule 2.
"Organisation's Delegate" means the person identified as such on the first page of this Agreement or as notified to the State in writing from time to time. 
"Organisation's Logo" means the organisation's logo provided by the Organisation to the State including any variant of the Organisation's Logo and any reference, image, phrase or indicia in relation to the Organisation's Logo whether verbal, in writing or print.
"Outcomes" means the outcomes identified in Item 3 of Schedule 1.
"Party" means either the State or the Organisation as the context requires and "Parties" means both the State and the Organisation. 
"Personal Information" means information or an opinion (including information or an opinion forming part of a database), whether true or not and whether recorded in a material form or not, about an individual whose identify is apparent or can reasonably be ascertained, from the information or opinion.
"Privacy Plan" means the privacy plan of the State available at http://education.qld.gov.au/home/privacy.html.
"Receiving Party" means the Party who receives Confidential Information from the Discloser.
"Relevant Target Audience" means the relevant target audience identified in Item 2 of Schedule 1. 
"Restricted Logo" means the Queensland Government identifying logo provided by the State to the Organisation including any variant of the restricted logo and any reference, image, phrase or indicia in relation to the restricted logo whether verbal, in writing or print.
"Sponsorship Benefits" means the sponsorship benefits set out in Item 4 of Schedule 1.
"Sponsorship Fee" means the cash amount set out on the first page of this Agreement (if any).
"Sponsorship Policy" means the State's sponsorship policy as contained in EDM-PR-001: Advertising and Sponsorship and available at http://education.qld.gov.au/strategic/eppr/marketing/index.html.
"Sponsorship Recipient Report" means the report produced by the State reporting on the sponsored activity, its objectives and outcomes.
"State's Delegate" means the person identified as such on the first page of this Agreement or as notified to the Organisation in writing from time to time.
"Status Report" means a report detailing the progress made by the State towards the planning of the Initiative and specifying individual actions taken to ensure that the Initiative will be completed in a timely and professional manner and in compliance with this Agreement.
"Term" means the period from the Commencement Date to the completion of the Initiative.
In this Agreement unless the context otherwise requires:
(a) words in a singular number include the plural and vice versa;
(b) words importing a gender include any other gender;
(c) a reference to a person includes a partnership and a body, whether corporate or otherwise;
(d) where a word or phrase is given a particular meaning, other parts of speech and grammatical forms of that word or phrase have corresponding meanings;
(e) a mention of anything after include, includes or including does not limit what else might be included;
(f) the clause headings are for convenient reference only and have no effect in limiting or extending the language for the provisions to which they refer;
(g) a reference to a clause is a reference to a clause or subclause of this Agreement;
(h) a reference to a schedule includes a reference to any part of that schedule which is not physically annexed to this Agreement but which is incorporated by reference; and
(i) a reference to a statute, regulation, ordinance or local law will be deemed to extend to all statutes, regulations, ordinances or local laws amending, consolidating or replacing the same.
2. Term
2.1. This Agreement commences on the Commencement Date and unless sooner terminated under clause 12, continues for the Term.
3. Sponsorship
3.1 The Organisation agrees to pay the Sponsorship Fee and provide the In-Kind Support to the State on the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
3.2 In consideration of the Organisation paying the Sponsorship Fee and providing the In-Kind Support, the State will provide the Organisation with the Sponsorship Benefits. 
3.3 The Parties to this Agreement agree that sponsorship and purchasing are independent activities and that sponsorship does not confer any advantage in government purchasing decisions.
4. Use of Restricted Logo
4.1 The State grants the Organisation a non-exclusive, non-transferable, royalty free license to use the Restricted Logo solely for the purpose of promoting the Organisation's sponsorship of the Initiative for the Term, or otherwise with the express written approval of the State.
4.2 The Organisation acknowledges and warrants to the State that it will not use, or authorise the use of, the State's Logo at any time except where, and in the manner, expressly authorised by this Agreement.
4.3 The State agrees to provide the Organisation with its Restricted Logo in the format requested by the Organisation upon signing of this agreement for use by the Organisation in accordance with clause 4.1.
4.4 Nothing in this Agreement affects in any way the ownership of the State's Intellectual Property Rights.
5. Use of Organisation's Logo
5.1 The Organisation grants the State a non-exclusive, non-transferable, royalty free license to use the Organisation's Logo solely for the purpose of promoting the Organisation's sponsorship of the Initiative for the Term, or otherwise with the express written approval of the Organisation.
5.2 The Organisation agrees to provide the State with the Organisation's Logo in the format requested by the State upon signing of this agreement for use by the State in accordance with clause 5.1.
5.3 Nothing in this Agreement affects in any way the ownership of the Organisation's Intellectual Property Rights.
6. The State's Obligations
6.1 During the Term, the State will:
(a) host or procure the hosting of the Initiative;
(b) use its best endeavours to ensure that the Organisation receives the Sponsorship Benefits in accordance with this Agreement; 
(c) use its best endeavours to meet the Milestones set out in the Project Plan in Item 1 of Schedule 2;
(d) when requested by the Organisation deliver a Status Report to the Organisation within 14 days of the Organisation's request; and
(e) use its best endeavors to market the Initiative to the Relevant Target Audience in an attempt to attract attendance at the Initiative.
6.2 Within 28 days of the conclusion of the Term, the State must provide the Organisation with a Sponsorship Recipient Report. This clause survives termination or expiration of this Agreement.
7. Payment
7.1 The Organisation will:
(a) pay the Sponsorship Fee to the State by cheque, made payable to the State; and
(b) provide the In-Kind Support to the State,
as set out in the payment plan in Item 2 of Schedule 2.
7.2 Where Item 2 of Schedule 2 provides that the State is to receive an installment payment of the Sponsorship Fee or In-Kind Support upon completion of a specified Milestone and the State has not completed that Milestone or part thereof to the satisfaction of the Organisation, the Organisation will be entitled to defer payment or provision of the installment until the State has completed that Milestone or part thereof to the satisfaction of the Organisation.
7.3 Payment by the Organisation of the Sponsorship Fee or provision of In-Kind Support or any part thereof, is subject to receipt by the Organisation of a valid tax invoice for the Sponsorship Fee or In-Kind Support or part thereof, from the State by the date specified in Item 2 of Schedule 2.
7.4 All payments of the Sponsorship Fee, and provision of the In-Kind Support, to the State are to be used by the State for the purposes of conducting the Initiative, and for no other purpose.
7.5 The State will commit a substantial breach for the purposes of clause 12.1 if it:
(a) contravenes clause 7.4 by applying the Sponsorship Fee or In-Kind Support for a purpose not reasonably connected with the conduct of the Initiative; or
(b) fails to complete a Milestone or part thereof.
8. Organisation's Warranties
8.1 The Organisation acknowledges and warrants to the State that:
(a) as at the Commencement Date the Organisation is free to, and has the authority to, enter into this Agreement;
(b) the Organisation will not use or authorise the use of the Restricted Logo at any time except where, and in the manner, expressly authorised by this Agreement; 
(c) use of the Organisation's Logo by the State will not infringe the rights of the Organisation or any third party or infringe any laws;
(d) in the event that the Organisation provides In-Kind Support, it will provide such support:
(i) in a timely conscientious, expeditious and professional manner;
(ii) in compliance with all applicable laws, regulations and policies; and
(iii) in accordance with the reasonable direction of the State; 
(e) the Organisation will not do anything or become involved in any situation which, in the reasonable opinion of the State, brings the State and/or Initiative into public disrepute, contempt, scandal or ridicule, offends public opinion or reflects unfavourably upon the State and/or the Initiative's reputation and the State will be the sole arbiter in this regard; and
(f) the sponsorship is not an endorsement by the State of the Organisation and its products and services and the Organisation will not promote or publicise the its sponsorship as such.
8.2 A breach of any of the warranties in this clause will be considered a substantial breach for clause 12.1.
9. Indemnity
9.1 The Organisation indemnifies the State and its officers, employees, servants, sub-contractors and agents against any loss, damage, expense (including legal costs) arising from:
(a) any negligence by the Organisation;
(b) any breach of this Agreement by the Organisation; and
(c) any claim, demand, action, suit or proceedings that may be made or brought against the State, for or in respect of personal injury to or the death of any person or loss of or damage to any property whatsoever arising out of or as a consequence of any default, unlawful act or omission or any negligence by the Organisation, its employees or agents in the performance of this Agreement.
9.2 This indemnity is in addition to and will not be taken to be exclusive of any other rights the State may have against the Organisation.
9.3 The indemnity in clause 9.1 survives the termination or expiration of this Agreement.
10. Confidentiality
10.1 The terms of this Agreement, including any negotiations of or amendments to this Agreement, are Confidential Information unless it comes into the public domain otherwise as a result of a breach of the terms of this Agreement.
10.2 The Receiving Party will not, during or after this Agreement, disclose Confidential Information directly or indirectly to any third party except:
(a) with the Discloser's prior written consent;
(b) as required by law; or
(c) in the case of both the Organisation and the State, to its officers, agents, professional advisers and contractors on a need to know basis for the purposes of this Agreement, or in the case of the State, any person for the purposes of the State's operations ("Additional Disclosees").
10.3 The Receiving Party will ensure that Additional Disclosees keep the Confidential Information confidential on the terms provided in this clause.
10.4 If the Receiving Party becomes aware of a suspected or actual breach of this clause by the Receiving Party or an Additional Disclosee, the Receiving Party will immediately notify the Discloser and take reasonable steps required to prevent or stop the suspected or actual breach.
10.5 The State and the Organisation are not restricted from disclosing their own Confidential Information.
10.6 Nothing in this Agreement prevents the State disclosing the identity of the Organisation and the amount of the Sponsorship Fee or nature of the sponsorship by way of a statement of a policy or governmental nature including but not limited to a statement in Parliament.
10.7 This clause survives termination or expiration of the Agreement.
11. Privacy
11.1 The State and the Organisation will comply with the State's Privacy Plan when dealing with any Personal Information of or related to the State under this Agreement.
11.2 Where the Organisation has access to Personal Information in order to fulfill its obligations under this Agreement, it must:
(a) where the Organisation is responsible for holding Personal Information, ensure that Personal Information is protected against loss and against unauthorized access, use, modification or disclosure and against other misuse;
(b) where the Organisation is required to collect Personal Information from any individual for the purposes of the Agreement, provide a notice to the individual in the form and manner advised by the State;
(c) not use Personal Information other than for the purposes of the Agreement, unless required or authorised by law;
(d) not disclose Personal Information without the written agreement of the State or any other persons authorised in writing by the State, unless required or authorised by law;
(e) ensure that only authorised personnel have access to Personal Information;
(f) immediately notify the State if it becomes aware that a disclosure of Personal Information is, or may be required or authorised by law;
(g) make its employees, agents and subcontractors aware of the Organisation's obligations under this clause including, when requested by the State, requiring those employees, agents and subcontractors to promptly sign a privacy deed, relating to Personal Information;
(h) indemnify the State for any liability arising from a breach by the Organisation of this clause notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement; and
(i) comply with such other privacy and security measures as the State reasonably advises the Organisation in writing from time to time.
11.3 The Organisation must immediately notify the State upon becoming aware of any breach of this clause.
11.4 The Organisation will ensure that records containing Personal Information are kept confidential and are not disclosed to any person other than the State except where required by law or with the State's written consent.
11.5 This clause survives termination or expiration of the Agreement.
12. Termination
12.1 A Party may terminate this Agreement by giving the defaulting Party written notice if the defaulting Party commits a substantial breach of any of its obligations under this Agreement and fails to remedy the breach, to the reasonable satisfaction of the non-offending Party, within fourteen days after receiving notice requiring it to do so.
12.2 The Organisation must notify the State immediately in writing if:
(a) the Organisation is in breach of the State's Sponsorship Policy during the Term;
(b) there is any change in the direct or indirect beneficial ownership or control of the Organisation;
(c) the Organisation disposes of the whole or part of its assets, operations or business other than in the ordinary course of business;
(d) the Organisation ceases to carry on business;
(e) the Organisation ceases to be able to pay its debts as and when they become due;
(f) any step is taken by a mortgagee to take possession or dispose of the whole or part of the Organisation's assets, operations or business, or the Organisation enters into any arrangements with its creditors; or
(g) any step is taken to appoint a receiver, a receiver and manager, a trustee in bankruptcy, a provisional liquidator, a liquidator, an administrator or other like person of the whole or part of the Organisation's assets,
and the State may terminate the Agreement immediately by notice in writing upon the occurrence of any of the events in 12.2(a) to 12.2(g) above.
12.3 Upon termination by the State under clauses 12.1 or 12.2, the State is not required to repay any amount of the Sponsorship Fee already paid or In-Kind Support provided. Exercise of rights pursuant to this clause is without prejudice to any other right of action or remedy which has accrued or may accrue due to failure of the Organisation to perform its obligations under this Agreement.
12.4 If this Agreement is terminated or expires for any reason:
(a) within 30 days of the date of termination or expiry, each Party must return to the other Party any materials or other property belonging to that Party; and
(b) unless specifically stated in the Agreement to survive termination or expiry, all rights and licences granted by one Party to the other Party under this Agreement will revert automatically to the grantor.
13. Notices
13.1 All notices in connection with this Agreement must be in writing and must be delivered to the address for service of the Party set out on the first page of this Agreement by hand, prepaid post or faxed to the Party's facsimile number.
13.2 Notices take effect from the time of receipt unless a later time is specified. If a notice is received after 5pm (Brisbane time) it is taken to be received on the next business day (Brisbane time). Notices sent by fax are taken to be received when the sender's fax system confirms a successful transmission of the total number of pages of the notice. 
13.3 Notices sent by post are taken to be received on the second Business Day after posting.
13.4 The Parties may from time to time change their respective addresses, telephone and facsimile numbers by providing the other Party with written notice.
14. Goods and Services Tax (GST)
14.1 The Parties agree that:
(a) the Sponsorship Fee payable under this Agreement is exclusive of GST;
(b) GST is payable on the value of the Agreement, including In-Kind Support; and
(c) the Organisation will be liable to pay an additional amount equal to the GST when any part of the consideration is first payable to the State.
14.2 If it is determined on reasonable grounds that the amount of GST collected from the Organisation under this clause differs, for any reason, from the amount of GST paid or payable by the Organisation, including by reason of:
(a) any amendment to the GST Act;
(b) the issue of a ruling or advice by the Commissioner of Taxation; or
(c) a refund to the State or to the Organisation in respect of a supply made under this Agreement,
the Organisation will be entitled to a refund of the additional consideration collected from the Organisation, and the State will issue an appropriate GST adjustment note.

15. Mediation
15.1 Where the Parties agree, the Parties will seek to settle any dispute arising in connection with this Agreement by negotiation and mediation before instituting legal proceedings.
15.2 If the Parties determine that the dispute is unlikely to be resolved by negotiation, either party may refer the dispute to mediation. If the Parties cannot agree on a mediator, a mediator will be appointed by the Australian Commercial Disputes Centre (Queensland).
15.3 For the purpose of this clause, a dispute will have arisen between the Parties when a Party gives notice to that effect to the other Party in writing.
15.4 Each Party will continue to perform this Agreement despite the existence of a dispute or any proceedings under this clause.
15.5 Any mediation costs will be borne respectively by either the State or the Organisation, whoever is deemed to be at fault. Where neither Party is deemed to be at fault, costs will be borne equally by both Parties.
15.6 For the avoidance or settlement of disputes and for the better management of this Agreement, the Parties nominate their respective delegates as the first point of contact.
15.7 This clause does not prevent a party commencing court proceedings relating to any dispute arising from this Agreement where that party seeks urgent interlocutory relief.
16. Rearrangement or Cancellation of Initiative
16.1 The Initiative may be subject to rearrangement, including cancellation (in whole or part) at the sole discretion of the State in the case of unforeseen circumstances such as inclement weather or other circumstances beyond the control of the State, including those constituting Force Majeure. Any such rearrangement or cancellation is to be notified to the Organisation in writing immediately following such a decision.
16.2 In the event that the Initiative is cancelled in whole or part or ceases to operate, the State and the Organisation will meet to discuss the Organisation's entitlement to a refund of the Sponsorship Fee that is reasonable in all the circumstances, taking into consideration any monies already expended by the State.
16.3 Any amount of the Sponsorship Fee that is to be refunded by the State to the Organisation will be refunded within 14 days of the parties agreeing the amount of the Sponsorship Fee to be refunded.
16.4 In the event that the Initiative is cancelled, postponed or ceases to operate, the State's entitlements to receive any further Sponsorship Fee will cease immediately. 
17. General
17.1 Assignment
A Party cannot assign, novate or otherwise transfer any of its rights or obligations under this Agreement without the prior consent of the other Party.
17.2 Amendments
This Agreement may only be varied by a document signed by or on behalf of each Party.
17.3 Conflicts of interest
The Organisation warrants that to the best of its knowledge, information and belief, no conflict of interest exists or is likely to arise in the performance of this Agreement, and will notify the State if any conflict of interest arises.
17.4 Cooperation
The Organisation will cooperate with the State and act reasonably and in good faith towards the State.
17.5 Disclosure
If the Organisation becomes aware of a matter that is likely to affect materially the ability of the Organisation to perform this Agreement, it will immediately notify the State of it.
17.6 Entire agreement
To the extent permitted by law, in relation to its subject matter, this Agreement:
(a) embodies the entire understanding of the Parties, and constitutes the entire terms agreed by the Parties; and
(b) supersedes any prior written or other agreement of the Parties.
17.7 Force majeure
If a Party is prevented from or delayed in performing an obligation by Force Majeure, and promptly acts to mitigate or remove the Force Majeure and its effect, then the obligation is suspended during, but for no longer than, the period the Force Majeure continues and any further period that is reasonable in the circumstances.
If either Party is unable to perform its obligations under this Agreement due to Force Majeure and the inability continues for a period of 30 days, either Party may terminate this Agreement immediately on providing notice to the other Party.
17.8 Further assurance
Each Party will promptly do further acts and execute and deliver further documents (in form and content reasonably satisfactory to that Party) required by law or reasonably requested by the other Party to give effect to this Agreement.
17.9 Governing law
This Agreement is governed by and must be construed according to the law applying in Queensland. Each Party irrevocably submits to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of the courts of Queensland, and the courts competent to determine appeals from those courts, with respect to any proceedings that may be brought at any time relating to this Agreement.
17.10 Parties' relationship
(a) Nothing in this Agreement will be taken as establishing the Organisation as an employee or agent of the State without the express written authority of the State.
(b) Except as specifically provided for in this Agreement a Party will not incur any expenditure on behalf of any other Party or have the power to bind the other Party to any contractual obligation, with the prior written approval of the other Party.
17.11 Set-off
The State may set off money due to the State from the Organisation, or damages, costs or expenses recoverable by the State from the Organisation, against money due to the Organisation under this Agreement or another contract between the Parties.
17.12 Severability
If any provision of this Agreement is held invalid, unenforceable or illegal for any reason, this Agreement will remain otherwise in full force apart from such provision that will be deemed deleted.
17.13 Waiver
(a) Failure to exercise or enforce, or a delay in exercising or enforcing, or the partial exercise or enforcement of, a right, power or remedy provided by law or under this Agreement by a Party does not preclude, or operate as a waiver of, the exercise or enforcement, or further exercise or enforcement, of that or any other right, power or remedy provided by law or under this Agreement.
(b) A waiver or consent given by a Party under this Agreement is only effective and binding on that Party if it is given or confirmed in writing by that Party.
(c) No waiver of a breach of a term of this Agreement operates as a waiver of another breach of that term or of a breach of any other term of this Agreement.

Signed as an Agreement


SCHEDULE 1

[The information below is provided as an example only and will need to be tailored for each Initiative.]
Item 1:	The Initiative
[Insert a description of the Initiative]

The [Name of Initiative] is planned to be held at the [Address & Location] from [date & time]. OR The Initiative will be conducted/carried out between [date & time] and [date & time] and will be sponsored by the Organisation during that time period.

Item 2:	Relevant Target Audience

[Insert description of the relevant target audience. For example, Brisbane and SE Qld residents; OR International experts on Urban design.]

Item 3:	Outcomes

The required Outcomes of the Initiative are as follows:
[Insert description of outcomes.]

Item 4:	Sponsorship Benefits
[Where possible, specify the detail of each Sponsorship Benefit whether it is Exclusive or Non Exclusive]
Item 4.1	Official designation/Naming rights

[Does the Organisation receive an official designation as sponsor? What is the title to be used? 

Is the official designation exclusive to the Organisation or non-exclusive?


Item 4.2	Marketing benefits 

Branding
* Where will the Organisation's logo be visually displayed at the event. List all the agreed branding components (ie banners, multimedia presentation, etc) Please contact Corporate Communication and Marketing on 3237 1363 if approvals / logos are required [Example: The Organisation's Logo will be displayed in the main session room on a logo board and will appear on all power point slides used by all presenters for the duration of the Initiative] [Specify size of logo is possible.]
* Where will the Organisation's Logo / reference to the Organisation be placed in any brochures, speeches, posters or other promotional collateral? [Example: the State placing a promotional paragraph provided by the Organisation and the Organisation's Logo on the Initiative's website; and the State including a hyperlink on the State's website to the Organisation's website.]

Media / advertising 
* The Organisation should be mentioned in any media releases prepared by the State. This should be in the form of a textual mention n media releases and logo in any advertising. Please contact Corporate Communication and Marketing on 3237 1363 if approvals / logos are required. 

Presentation / ticketing 
* Does the Organisation receive any benefits associated with an event. Generally these will be: 
a. Complimentary tickets
b. A speaking role 
c. Photo opportunities
d. The handing over of an award

In Kind Support
* Is the Organisation offering any in kind support? Generally this would involve use of their human / physical resources

Other 
* List any other benefits that would form part of this arrangement



SCHEDULE 2
Item 1:	Project Plan:
[The Milestones below are indicative only and will need to be tailored for each Sponsorship.]
No.MilestoneDue Date1Signing of Sponsorship Agreement by both Parties.[insert]2Initiative commences.[insert]3Receipt by Organisation of satisfactory sponsorship recipient report.Within 28 days of the end of the Term
Item 2:	Payment Plan:
[The Payment Plan below is indicative only and will need to be tailored for each Sponsorship. In-Kind Support and its dollar equivalent should also be listed here.]
No.ItemFeeTiming of Invoice1Signing of Sponsorship Agreement by both Parties.$[insert] (excluding GST)Milestone 12Sponsorship recipient report received by Organisation$[insert] (excluding GST)Milestone 3


1


Uncontrolled copy. Refer to EDM-PR-001: Advertising and Sponsorship at  http://education.qld.gov.au/strategic/eppr/marketing/edmpr001/ for master.

TRIM: 09/56750		Page 1 of 13



Incoming Sponsorship Agreement



Document No.: 834660

