AGREEMENT FOR SERVICES AND ACCESS TERMS FOR THE RECOMBINANT PRODUCTS LABORATORY FACILITY SERVICES
Parties
University

University of New South Wales, a body corporate under the University of New South Wales Act 1989, ABN 57 195 873 179, of Sydney, NSW 2052

Attention: Director, Recombinant Proteins Facility
Address : University of NSW, Sydney, NSW, 2052, AustraliaTel : +61 2 9385 3898	Fax : +61 2 9385 1483Email : rpf@unsw.edu.au
Client

Client Project Officer



Attention: [Insert Name]
Address :  [Insert Address]Tel : 	  [Insert Number]	Fax : 	[Insert Number]		Email : [Insert Address]Details
Item 1

Commencement  Date

The commencement date of this agreement is:

[Insert Date]Item 2

Client's Project for which Services are required

[Insert Description of Project for which Client requires the services to be performed
Item 3

Services

Include
[1. Comprehensive Description of Services]
[2. Applicable Timeframes for Delivery of Services]
[3. Milestones]
[4. Specification if subsequent stages are conditional on earlier milestones being met]

Item 4

Deliverables


[List Deliverables]
Item 5

Fees (ex GST)

[Specify fee in Australian Dollars, including any instalments and any deliverables, completion of which patment of any installment of the Fee is conditional]
Item 6

Materials to be supplied by Client


[Specify all Materials to be supplied by the Client, including all Client Materials and Third Party Materials. Specify whether Third Party Materials will be supplied pursuant to a Materials Transfer Agreement.]
[Specify quantities of materials to be supplied]Item 7

Applicable Policies, Codes of Practice and Guidelines
A1	Gene Technology Act and Regulations
A2	Occupational Health & Safety Act 2000 and Regulations including the UNSW occupational health and safety systems and policies.
A3	Risk management programme
A4	Biological Safety Procedures
A5	[Specify any other applicable Policies, Codes and Guidelines]
Item 8

Confidential Information


[Specify all Confidential Information to be supplied by Client to UNSW and formats in which the Confidential Information will be supplied.  Specify all Third Party Confidential Information]Item 9

Access Conditions




[Specify all conditions noted in the Access Permit if required]
Item 10

Ethics/Biosafety approval required
Item 11

Access Area
Time and Frequency of Entry to Access Area 


[Insert Details of Access Area including need to sign in daily at reception]

Item 12

Purpose of Access
Item 13

Labelling of Materials
Item 14

Client InsurancePublic liability insurance to the value of at least $10 million per claim, or occurrence giving rise to a claim, in respect to activities undertaken under these Terms, where occurrence means either a single occurrence or a series of occurrences if these are linked or occur in connection with one another from one original cause, as the case may be.

Item 15

Address for Notices

For UNSW
Dr. Chris Marquis
Director of the UNSW RPF
http://www.proteins.unsw.edu.au 
c.marquis@unsw.edu.au or rpf@unsw.edu.au 
+61-2-93853898

For the Client
[Insert Client Details]Note: All capitalised terms in column 1 of the Details have the meaning given in column 2.


Details
EXECUTED as an agreement on the terms of the Details and the Terms and Conditions.


SIGNED for and on behalf of UNIVERSITY OF NEW SOUTH WALES by its duly authorised representative:

............................................................
Signature


............................................................
Printed Name


............................................................
Authorised Representative

............................................................
Date

In the presence of:


............................................................
Signature

............................................................
Printed Name
SIGNED for and on behalf of THE CLIENT by its duly authorised representative:


............................................................
Signature


............................................................
Printed Name


............................................................
Authorised Representative

............................................................
Date

In the presence of:


............................................................
Signature

............................................................
Printed Name






Note: By executing this agreement each signatory represents that he or she is authorised to sign on behalf of UNSW and the Client as the case may be




TERMS

1. 
1. Introduction
1.1. The UNSW Recombinant Products Facility located, at the Kensington Campus of UNSW, is centred around a dedicated bioprocessing laboratory complex (Facility). The Facility provides cell line development, bioprocess development and protein production services to the research community and industry.
1.2. The Client wishes to obtain Services provided by UNSW through the Facility and may also be an applicant for, or may intend to apply for, an Access Permit.
1.3. In consideration of the Client complying with these Terms UNSW agrees to provide the Services to the Client.
1.4. UNSW may also agree to grant the Client access to the Facility provided conditions of the Access Permit are met by the Client.
1.5	This Agreement commences on the date of execution.
2. Facility  Services 
2.1	The Facility will provide the Client with the Services.
2.2	UNSW will perform the Services to professional standards using the staff and resources of the Facility. 
2.3	If Item 3 of the Details specifies milestones for the delivery of the Services, UNSW shall not be liable for the performance of subsequent milestones if completion of those subsequent milestones are conditional on results of earlier milestones which do not eventuate.
2.4	The parties agree that part of the Services to be provided may take the form of research, and due to the inherently uncertain nature of research the actual outcomes and results of the Services cannot be assured.  UNSW will not be liable to the Client for any loss or damage arising by reason of its failure to achieve an intended outcome of the Services, provided that UNSW has provided the Services in accordance with these Terms.
2.5 The Client acknowledges that the Facility undertakes the manufacture of proteins and cell lines for research and not as goods for sale.  The Deliverables are intended for use by the Client in the conduct of its research and are not provided by UNSW to the Client for use in any product or process made available to third parties on a commercial basis.
3. Performance Standards

3.1	In compliance with these Terms the Client will:
a. comply with any conditions specified in the Details;
b. carry on its activities to a high standard and in accordance with relevant best practice, including any policies, codes of practice or Guidelines specified in Item 7 of the Details or notified by UNSW from time to time;
c. comply with any conditions imposed upon the Client in relation to Access as set out in Item 9 of the Details;
d. comply with all relevant laws of the Commonwealth and any applicable laws of the States, Territories or local government;
e. obtain and hold all necessary approvals and licences;  and
f. liaise with UNSW and provide any information UNSW may reasonably require and comply with any reasonable request made by UNSW.
3.2 Where UNSW provides Access to the Client, the Client will:
a.	ensure that its Personnel comply with all reasonable requirements and directions of UNSW with regard to conduct, behaviour, safety and security; and
b.	be liable for any damage to the extent that such damage is cause by the Client's Personnel present on the Facility
4. Materials
Client Materials 
4.1	The Client shall ensure that the use of all Materials on the Facility for the purposes of Manufacture (for example cell lines, expression systems etc) comply with all licence agreements.
4.2	The Client warrants that the Materials so not infringe the Intellectual Property Rights of any third party.
4.3	The entire right, title and interest in the Materials, any progeny or modification of the Materials, and any rights subsisting in them, remains at all times with the Client or any third party that has licensed or supplied the Materials to the Client.
4.2	The Client will:
(a) provide the Materials on time;
(b) ensure that the Materials are safely transported to and from the Facility at the Client's cost; and
(c) are suitable for UNSW to perform the Services.
4.3	The Materials provided must be:
(a) suitably packaged;
(b) labelled with the Client's name and contact details and the contents and the name of UNSW contact officers; and
(c) labelled with appropriate safety warnings or instructions for their handling, testing, storage, transportation and disposal.
4.4	If clause 4.2.and 4.3 are not complied with and UNSW has to take measures to safeguard the health and safety of staff, the Facility or the public, then UNSW will charge the Client and the Client shall pay for the cost of taking these measures.
4.5	The Client may also disclose Confidential Information to UNSW which disclosure will be governed by clause 8. 
4.6	The Client provides the Materials and any Confidential Information solely for the purpose of undertaking the Project. 
4.7	UNSW must use the Materials or the Confidential Information only for the Project, and must not use the Materials or the Confidential Information for any other purpose.
Gene Technology Regulations 
4.8	The Facility is only able to culture organisms that comply with it's license to operate. These are exempt dealings that comply with Schedule 2 of the Gene Technology Regulations (less than 10L) or Notifiable Low Risk Dealings (NLRDs) for operation greater than 10L. At all times dealings with GMOs must be conducted in accordance with gene technology regulatory requirements. Dealings must also comply with the University's occupational health and safety systems including the Risk Management Program and Biological Safety Procedures.
Material Ownership and Rights 
4.9	UNSW acknowledges that:
(a) the Materials; and
(b) all of the Confidential Information, including any copyright that subsists in any part of the Confidential Information, 
shall at all times remain the absolute property of the Client. 
4.10	Nothing in this Agreement confers upon UNSW any right to any part of the Materials or Confidential Information.
5. Intellectual Property Rights
Background Intellectual Property Rights 
5.1 UNSW Background Intellectual Property which is owned and used by UNSW in the provision of the Services under this Agreement remains with UNSW. 
5.2	Client Background Intellectual Property Rights owned by the Client remain with the Client. The Client hereby grants to UNSW for the duration of the Services, a non-exclusive, non-transferable free of cost licence to use Client Background Intellectual Property Rights in the performance of the Services and solely for the performance of the Services.
5.3	No assignment to the Client of University Background Intellectual Property Rights is implied by the use of University Background Intellectual Property Rights in the provision of the Services.
5.4	No licence to the Client other than expressly provided for in these Terms is implied by the use of University Background Intellectual Property in the provision of the Services.
Intellectual Property Rights in Deliverables
5.5 Without affecting the position between the Client and any third party owner of the Client's Materials, upon payment of the Fee, all right, title and interest in the Deliverables vests absolutely in the Client.  UNSW shall do all acts and execute all documents reasonably required to give effect to this clause.
UNSW Intellectual Property Rights 
5.6	All Intellectual Property Rights in any knowledge, skill, processes and knowhow (patented or not) used by UNSW Personnel in the performance of the Services remains the property of UNSW and available for use by UNSW, in its discretion in the provision of the same or similar services to other clients of UNSW.
Survival
5.7 The operation of this clause 5 survives the expiration or earlier termination of these Terms.
6. Financial Arrangements
Payments by the Client
6.1	Moneys payable by the Client to UNSW under these Terms will be paid in accordance with Item 5 of the Details  and within 30 days following receipt of a correctly rendered tax invoice.
Taxes, Duties and Government Charges
6.2	Subject to this clause, all taxes, duties and government charges imposed or levied in Australia or overseas in connection with these Terms must be borne by the party liable for them.
6.3	Amounts payable by the Client to UNSW under these Terms will include an amount to cover any liability of UNSW for GST on any supplies made by UNSW under these Terms which are taxable supplies within the meaning of the GST Act.
6.4	In relation to taxable supplies made under these Terms, UNSW will issue the Client a tax invoice in accordance with the GST Act.
6.5	In this clause:
a. GST has the meaning given to it in the GST Act
b. GST ACT means A New Tax System (Goods and Services Tax) Act 1999 (Cth).
7. Acknowledgment and Publicity
7.1	The Client must not use the name of UNSW in a manner that suggests that UNSW endorses, or is associated with the Client's business, products or services.
7.2	UNSW operates the Facility with funding provided pursuant to Funding Agreements.   The Client hereby consents to UNSW:
(a)	retaining copies of any reports UNSW creates or any data in generates or collects in the performance of the Serivices forits own internal reporting obligations;
(b)	providing details relating to the Client, the Project and the Services to any body providing funding under a Funding Agreement;
(c)	including details relating to the Client, the Project and the Services in any report, press release, website or publication created pursuant to any Funding Agreement.
7.3	The operation of this clause survives the expiration or earlier termination of these Terms.

8. Confidential Information
Use of Confidential Information 
8.1	Subject to clause 8.5, a Party must not, without the prior written consent of the other Party, use or disclose any Confidential Information of the other Party.
8.2	In giving written consent to use or disclose its Confidential Information, a Party may impose such conditions as it thinks fit, and the other Party agrees to comply with these conditions.
8.3	A Party may at any time require the other Party to arrange for the other Party's employees, servants or agents to give a written undertaking in the form of a Deed relating to the use and non-disclosure of the first Party's Confidential Information.
8.4	If a Party receives a request under clause 8.3, it must promptly arrange for all such undertakings to be given.
8.5	The obligations on a Party under this clause will not be taken to have been breached to the extent that Confidential Information is:
a. 	disclosed by a Party to its employees, servants or agents solely in order to comply with obligations, or to exercise rights, under these Terms;
b. I	disclosed to a Party's internal management personnel, solely to enable effective management or auditing of activities related to these Terms;
c. 	shared by a Party within its organisation, where this serves the Party's legitimate interests;
d. 	disclosed by a Party, in response to a request by a House or a Committee of the Parliament of the Commonwealth of Australia;
e. 	authorised or required by law to be disclosed;
f. disclosed by a Party and is information in a material form in respect of which an interest, whether by licence or otherwise, in the Intellectual Property Rights in relation to that material form, has vested in, or is assigned to, the Party under these Terms or otherwise, and that disclosure is permitted by that licence or otherwise; or
g. 	in the public domain otherwise than due to a breach of this clause.
8.6	Where a Party discloses Confidential Information to another person:
a.	pursuant to clauses 8.5 (a), (b) or (d) - the disclosing Party must:
b.	notify the receiving person that the information is Confidential Information; and
c.	not provide the information unless the receiving person agrees to keep the information confidential; or
d.	pursuant to clauses 8.5 (c) or (e) - the disclosing Party must notify the receiving person that the information is Confidential Information.
8.7	The obligations under this clause continue, notwithstanding the expiry or termination of the Services or these Terms:
a.	in relation to an item of information described in Item 8 of the Details - for the period set out in the Details in respect of that item; and
b.	in relation to any information that is agreed between the Parties after the Date of these Terms as constituting Confidential Information for the purposes of these Terms - for the period agreed by the Parties.
8.8	Nothing in this clause derogates from any obligation which the Client may have either under the Privacy Act, or under these Terms, in relation to the protection of Personal Information.
9. Indemnity
9.1	The Client agrees to indemnify (and to keep indemnified) UNSW and its Personnel (those indemnified) against any: 
a. loss or liability incurred by UNSW; 
b. loss of or damage to UNSW's property; or
c. loss or expense incurred by UNSW in dealing with any claim against UNSW; 
arising from: 
d. any unlawful or negligent act or omission of the Client or its Personnel in connection with these Terms, or the conduct of the Project; 
e. any infringement or alleged infringement by any of those indemnified of any third party Intellectual Property Rights arising out of the use by those indemnified of any Material supplied to them by the Client or the Client's Personnel
f. any breach by the Client of its obligations under these Terms; 
9.2	the Client's liability to indemnify UNSW under this clause will be reduced proportionally to the extent that any fault on UNSW's part contributed to the relevant loss, damage, expense, or liability. 
9.3	UNSW's right to be indemnified under this clause is in addition to, and not exclusive of, any other right, power, or remedy provided by law. 
9.4	This operation of this clause survives the expiration or earlier termination of the Term of these Terms.
10. Limitation of Liability
Limitation of Liability Provisions 
10.1	All terms, conditions and warranties (including any warranty as to merchantable quality or fitness for purpose) implied by common law or statute as to the manner, quality and timing of the services are excluded unless the exclusion of any such implied warranties would contravene the law or cause any part of these Terms to be void.
10.2	UNSW's liability for breach of any of these Terms or of any implied warranties is limited to either re-performing the Services or refunding the total Fee paid in respect of that part of the Services.  

10.3	UNSW will not be liable for any indirect or consequential damage suffered by the Client in any way arising from the performance of the Services or the Client's use of the results of the Services..
11. Insurance 
Provision of insurance
11.1	The Client must, for as long as any obligations remain in connection with these Terms, have insurance as specified in Item 14 of the Details .
11.2	Whenever requested, the Client must provide UNSW, within 10 Business Days of the request, with evidence satisfactory to UNSW that the Client has complied with its obligation to insure.
11.3	All insurance under this clause is to be taken out with an insurer recognised under Australian law, and whenever requested, the Client must provide UNSW with evidence satisfactory to UNSW that the Client has complied with its obligation to insure.
11.4	.The operation of this clause survives the expiration or earlier termination of these Terms.

12. Termination
Termination by Agreement
12.1	These Terms may be terminated at any time by mutual agreement in writing.
Termination for Default
12.2	Where the Client fails to satisfy any of its obligations under these Terms, UNSW, if it considers that the failure is:
a. not capable of remedy, may by written notice terminate these Terms immediately; 
b. capable of remedy, may by written notice require that the failure be remedied within the time specified in the notice and, if not remedied within that time, may terminate these Terms immediately by giving a second notice.
12.3		On termination of these Terms, the Client must pay to UNSW all costs incurred by UNSW in relation to the Services at the date of termination and any reasonable additional costs in connection with the Services necessarily incurred or committed by UNSW as a result of the termination.
13. Dispute Resolution
No Legal Proceedings
13.1	Subject to clause 13.2, both Parties agree not to commence any legal proceedings in respect of any dispute arising under these Terms, which cannot be resolved by informal discussion, until the procedure provided by this clause has been utilised.
Dispute Resolution Procedure
13.2	Both Parties agree that any dispute arising during the course of these Terms is dealt with as follows:
a. 	the Party claiming that there is a dispute will send the other a written notice setting out the nature of the dispute;
b. 	the Parties will try to resolve the dispute though direct negotiation by persons who they have given authority to resolve the dispute;
c. 	the Parties have 10 Business Days from the receipt of the notice to reach a resolution or to agree that the dispute is to be submitted to mediation or some alternative dispute resolution procedure; and
d. 	if:
A. 	there is no resolution of the dispute;
B. 	there is no agreement on submission of the dispute to mediation or some alternative dispute resolution procedure; or
C. there is a submission to mediation or some other form of alternative dispute resolution procedure, but there is no resolution within 15 Business Days of the submission, or such extended time as the Parties may agree in writing before the expiration of the 15 Business Days,
D. then, either Party may commence legal proceedings.
13.3	This clause does not apply to the following circumstances:
a.	either Party commences legal proceedings for urgent interlocutory relief;
b.	termination for default under clause 11 ;or
c.	an authority of the Commonwealth, a State or Territory is investigating a breach or suspected breach of the law by the Client.
13.4	Despite the existence of a dispute, both Parties must (unless requested in writing by the other Party not to do so) continue to perform their respective obligations in accordance with these Terms.
13.5	The operation of this clause survives the expiration or earlier termination of the Term of these Terms.
14. General Provisions
Negation of Employment, Partnership and Agency
14.1	The Client agrees not to represent itself, and to use its best endeavours to ensure that its Personnel do not represent themselves, as being an officer, employee, partner or agent of UNSW, or as otherwise able to bind or represent UNSW.
14.2	The Client is not by virtue of these Terms an officer, employee, partner or agent of UNSW, nor does the Client have any power or authority to bind or represent UNSW.
Waiver
143.3	A failure or delay by a party to exercise any right it holds under these Terms will not operate as a waiver of that right.
14.4	A single or partial exercise by a party of any right it holds under these Terms will not prevent that party from exercising that right again or exercising that right to the extent it has not already been exercised.
14.5	In this clause, the word "right" means a right or remedy provided by these Terms or at law.
Assignment and novation
14.6	Except as otherwise provided by these Terms, the Client cannot novate its obligations and must not assign its rights, under these Terms without, in either case, prior approval in writing from UNSW, which will not be unreasonably withheld.
14.7	The Client must not consult with any other person for the purposes of entering into an arrangement that will require novation of these Terms without first consulting UNSW.
Notices
14.8	Any notice, request or other communication to be given or served pursuant to these Terms will be in writing and dealt with as follows:
a. if given by the Client to UNSW - addressed as specified in Item D [UNSW Address for Notices] of Schedule 1 or
b. if given by UNSW to the Client - addressed as specified in Item E [the Client Address for Notices] of Schedule 1.
14.9	Any notice, request or other communication is to be delivered by hand, sent by prepaid post or transmitted electronically.  If it is sent or transmitted electronically, a copy is to be sent to the addressee by prepaid post.
14.10	A notice will only be deemed as given and received:
a. if delivered by hand, upon delivery to the relevant address;
b. if sent by pre-paid ordinary post within Australia, upon the expiration of 2 business days after the date on which it was sent;
c. if transmitted electronically, upon receipt by the sender of an acknowledgment that the communication has been properly transmitted to the recipient and
d. in any event, if received after 5.00pm (local time in the place of receipt) on a Business Day or on a day that is not a Business Day, on the next Business Day.
14.11	Either party may, by written notice to the other, change its representative.  
Governing law
14.12	These Terms are to be construed in accordance with the laws of New South Wales. 
15. Special Conditions
15.1	The Client  and UNSW agree to adhere to any special conditions noted in Item 16 of the Details.
16. Definitions and Interpretation
Definitions
16.1	In these Terms, unless the context indicates otherwise:
Access Permit means a permit issued for the purposes of authorising physical access to the Recombinant Facility;
Business Day means a day on which banks are open in Sydney;
Client means the person or persons (individual or organisation) named as the Client and includes their officers, employees, agents and contractors, or any of them, where the context permits;
Commencement Date means the date specified in Item 1 of the Details;
Confidential Information means:
a. any information described as confidential in Item 6 of the Details; and
b. any information that is agreed between the Parties after the Date of these Terms as constituting Confidential Information for the purposes of these Terms;
GMO means a genetically modified organism;
GMO licence means a licence issued under section 55 Gene Technology Act .
Intellectual Property Includes:
a. know-how (whether patentable or not);
b. copyright;
c. all rights in relation to inventions (including patent rights)
d. all rights in relation to plant varieties (including plant breeders rights); 
e. registered and unregistered trademarks (including service marks), designs, and circuit layouts, and 
f. all other rights resulting from intellectual activity;
Materials includes biological materials, related information and data supplied by the Client as specified in Item 5 of the Details.
Personnel means employees, staff, contractors, conjoint and adjunct appointments and agents of UNSW or the Client as the case may be;
Project means the project specified in Item 2 of the Details;
Tier 1 Client means Universities and other publicly funded research institutes and entities within Australia.    
Tier 2 Client (a) Small Australian companies with less than 15 employees or  (b) collaborations between a Tier 1 Researcher and one or more Tier 3 Researchers or (c) Australian companies owned wholly or in part by a Tier 1 Researcher. 
Tier 3  Client International or Australian Corporations with Full commercial outfits in the private sector.
UNSW means the person or persons (individual or organisation) named as UNSW and includes their officers, employees, agents and contractors, or any of them, where the context permits;
Interpretation
16.2	In these Terms, unless the contrary intention appears:
a. words importing a gender include any other gender
b. words in the singular include the plural and words in the plural include the singular
c. clause headings are inserted for convenient reference only and have no effect in limiting or extending the language of provisions to which they refer
d. words importing a person include a partnership and a body whether corporate or otherwise
e. all references to dollars are to Australian dollars
f. a reference to any legislation or legislative provision includes any statutory modification substitution or re-enactment of such legislation or legislative provision
g. where any word or phrase is given a defined meaning, any other part of speech or other grammatical form in respect of that word or phrase has a corresponding meaning
h. reference to an Item is to an Item in a schedule
i. the schedules and any attachments form part of these Terms
j. reference to a schedule (or an attachment) is a reference to a schedule (or an attachment) to these Terms, including as amended or replaced from time to time by agreement in writing between the parties and
k. a reference to writing means any representation of words, figures or symbols, whether or not in a visible form.
Guidance on Construction of these Terms
16.3	These Terms records the entire agreement between the parties in relation to its subject matter.
16.4	These Terms may only be varied by a formal deed of variation executed by both parties.
16.5	As far as possible all provisions must be construed so as not to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable.
16.6	If anything in these Terms is unenforceable, illegal or void then it is severed and the rest of these Terms remains in force.
16.7	Any reading down or severance of a particular provision does not affect the other provisions of these Terms.
16.8	If a provision cannot be read down, that provision will be void and severable and the remaining provisions will not be affected.
16.9	A provision of these Terms will not be construed to the disadvantage of a Party solely on the basis that it proposed that provision.




 

Page 1 of 13




