





















GENERAL CONDITIONS OF CONTRACT

FOR SERVICES - MINOR



1.	OBJECTIVES AND SCOPE

The Parties enter into this Contract on the basis of the following:
* The Principal requires the Contractor to provide the services specified in the Statement of Requirements; and
* The Contractor has agreed to provide those services in all respects upon the terms and conditions of this Contract.

2.	DEFINITIONS

In this Contract unless something else is clearly intended:

"Contract" means the agreement between the Contractor and Principal;

"Commencement Date" means the date which appears on the letter of acceptance or such other date as agreed to by the Parties;

"Contractor" means the person, firm, partnership, company or other legal entity who as a party to the Contract is bound to execute the service in accordance with the Contract;

"Expiry Date" means the date specified in the Annexure, or where a period of time is specified in the Annexure, the last day of the period;

"Principal" means the person named in the Annexure and includes any person to whom the Principal has delegated its functions and powers for the purposes of this Contract or for the purpose of any negotiations, consultations, or approvals that may be required for the work to be performed under this Contract;

"Principal's Representative" means the person named and described in the Annexure or such other person as the Principal may nominate in writing from time to time to the Contractor;

"Records" means calculations, drawings, data, deliverables, records of meetings or discussions and any other relevant documentation collected or prepared for the purpose of providing the Services, but excludes the Contractor's internal administrative records;

"Services" means the Services to be provided by the Contractor to the Principal under this Contract and all other services expressly or impliedly required to be provided by the Contractor by this Contract.

3.	EVIDENCE OF CONTRACT

The Contract is evidenced by the agreement in writing between the parties which includes those documents listed in the in the "Schedule of Contract Documents".  This Contract contains the entire agreement between the Parties with respect to its subject matter and supersedes all prior agreement, understandings or representation of the Parties on the subject matter.  Any modification of this Agreement must be in writing and signed by each Party.

4.	CONTRACTOR'S OBLIGATIONS

The Contractor warrants, represents and undertakes to the Principal that:
(a)	all Services will be rendered with promptness and diligence and shall be executed in accordance with appropriate standards;
(b)	it will use adequate numbers of qualified individuals with suitable training, education, experience and skill to perform the Services;
(c)	it will use its best efforts to perform the Services in the most cost-effective manner consistent with the required level of quality and performance;
(d)	before entering into this Contract it has disclosed to the Principal all of its past, current and anticipated interests and that of its employees which may conflict with or restrict their respective performance of the Services fairly and independently;
(e)	it shall ensure it's agents, employees or contractors observe and comply with the provisions of this Contract.


5.	CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION

Each Party shall at all times throughout the Term have a Contract Representative who has authority to bind their Party in relation to any matter arising out of or in connection with this Contract.

The Principal's Representative will be that person described in the Annexure or such other person as the Principal may nominate in writing from time to time.  The Principal's Representative may exercise all the powers and functions of the Principal under this Contract.

The Contractor's Contract Representative will be that person nominated in writing by the Contractor to the Principal's Contract Representative from time to time.

The Principal may arrange periodic meetings to discuss performance of the services.  The Parties shall ensure that their Representative or an authorised representative of the Representative is present at all meetings.

The Contractor shall maintain (and provide copies to the Principal) all Records and other information in respect of the Services as required by this Contract.

6.	TIME PROVISIONS

This Contract shall commence on the Commencement Date and expire upon the Expiry Date as specified in the Annexure, unless terminated earlier in accordance with this Contract.

7.	INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS

This Contract does not and shall not be construed so as to vest in the Principal Intellectual Property Rights vesting in the Contractor prior to the date of this Contract or arising otherwise than in the course of the Services.

The Principal owns all Intellectual Property Rights in all Records generated in connection with the performance of the Services. The Contractor warrants that in providing the Services, it is not infringing the Intellectual Property Rights of any person.

The Contractor shall within 14 days after the termination or expiry of this Agreement and at any other time upon demand by the Principal deliver to the Principal a copy of any Records created in connection with this Contract not previously forwarded to the Principal.

8.	PAYMENT

The amount payable under this Contract shall be ascertained in accordance with the following methods, as stated in the Annexure:

Lump Sum

For work for which the Principal has accepted a Lump Sum, the Principal will pay the Lump Sum, adjusted by any additions or deletions made pursuant to the Contract.  Payment shall not exceed the Lump Sum unless the Principal has issued a Variation, in writing, in accordance with Clause 11 "Variations".

The Lump Sum shall be deemed to full payment for the provision of all supplies, tasks, services, activities, incidentals, overheads, fees and disbursements relating to the Lump Sum part of the Contract, regardless of whether or not these are mentioned in any Schedule of Prices. If a Schedule of Prices has been provided, it shall be used for the purpose of assisting in the determination of progress payments only.  Progress payments will be made as a portion of the Lump Sum commensurate with the amount of Services provided as of the date of invoice.


Schedule of Rates

For work for which the Principal has accepted a Schedule of Rates, the Principal will pay the sum ascertained by multiplying the measured quantity of each item of service actually carried out under the Contract by the rate accepted by the Principal for the item of service, adjusted by any additions or deletions made pursuant to the Contract.

Except where a disbursement has been specifically included in the schedules, the rates are deemed to allow for all supplies, tasks, services, activities, incidentals, overheads, fees and disbursements relating to the item of service listed in the schedule.  No separate payment will be made for any work or expense required for the item of service listed in the schedule but not specifically mentioned in the description of the item of service. A change in the measured quantity provided does not entitle the Contract to amend the applicable rate.

Upper Limiting Fee

For work for which the Principal has accepted an Upper Limiting Fee, the Principal will pay an amount ascertained on the same basis as a Schedule of Rates, up to the amount of the Upper Limiting Fee.  Payment shall not exceed the Upper Limiting Fee unless the Principal has issued a Variation, in writing, in accordance with Clause 11 "Variations".

At the times specified in the Statement of Requirements, or if no time is specified, monthly, the Contractor shall invoice the Principal in respect of the moneys due for Services satisfactorily performed.  The invoice shall be accompanied by such information and documentation as required by the Principal to verify the invoice. Subject to the provisions of this Clause, the Principal will pay the Contractor within 30 days of receiving a valid invoice.

If the Contractor's performance of the Services is in breach of this Contract, the Principal may withhold payment of the moneys due for that part of the services not provided in accordance with the Contract. If payment is to be withheld, the Principal will notify the Contractor within 14 days of the receipt of the Contractor's invoice of its intention to and reasons for withholding payment of the moneys due, or any part thereof. If the Principal disputes a claim for payment, the Principal will pay any undisputed portion of the invoice.

Payment will not be subject to Rise and Fall.

9.	VARIATIONS

A Party shall notify the other Party in writing immediately in the event of any change of requirements that may occur and result in any amendments to the scope or program of the work agreed for herein.  If the variation amounts to an addition to the Services, the Contractor shall notify the Principal.  If the Principal agrees that the variation falls outside the scope of the Services the Principal shall direct the Contractor to prepare a written quotation specifying the cost for the Contractor to carry out the variation.  The Contractor shall not carry out the variation unless the Principal gives the Contractor a written notice accepting the quotation and that written notice will specify the period by which the Expiry Date will be extended.

Both Parties shall carry out the variation accepted by the Principal in accordance with this Contract.

If the variation amounts to a deletion of any part of the Services, the Principal shall give the Contractor written notice of the deletion, any adjustment to the Fee and the Expiry Date.

Any dispute arising in relation to the operation of this Clause shall be resolved in accordance with the Clause 14 "Resolution of Disputes".

10.	REMEDIES

If:
(a)	the Contractor fails to provide Services to the standard required under this Contract or at all:
(b)	notice has been given to the Contractor to rectify the default and it has not been rectified within 14 days of the notice or such other time as permitted by the Principal; or
(c)	the standard of performance of the Services or lack of performance of the Services by the Contractor is such that the Principal's efficiency or the proper, safe and cost effective performance of the Principal's functions is affected,

the Principal may engage another Contractor to provide the Service or any part of the Services, and in that event shall not be liable to pay to the Contractor charges associated with the Services to the Principal.

11.	SUB-CONTRACTING AND ASSIGNMENT

Neither Party shall assign, subcontract or otherwise transfer any of its rights or obligations pursuant to this Contract whether in whole or in part without the prior written consent of the other Party.

The Contractor shall be permitted to subcontract a portion of the work provided that the Contractor shall at all times remain responsible for the performance of the Services and that prior written approval has been obtained from the Principal.

12.	TERMINATION

The Principal may terminate this Contract immediately upon giving notice in writing to the Contractor if:
(a)	the Contractor is in breach of this Contract and has not rectified that breach within 10 days of the Principal giving notice in writing to the Contractor requiring the rectification of such breach; or
(b)	the Contractor suffers or is in jeopardy of becoming subject to any form of Insolvency Administration;
(c)	the Contractor fails to comply with any of its obligations in relation to occupational health, safety and welfare;

If the Principal terminates this Contract by notice in writing under (b) above it shall pay the Contractor for that part of the Services authorised by the Principal and performed by the Contractor up to the termination date.

13.	INSURANCE

The Contractor shall maintain in force at its own expense during the Term of this Contract the following insurance:

Public Liability

Public liability insurance on an occurrence based policy wording, in the name of the Contractor for not less than the amount specified in the Annexure; and

Professional Indemnity Insurance

If specified in the Annexure, a professional indemnity policy in the name of the Contractor for an amount not less than the amount specified in the Annexure.  The Contractor shall ensure that the professional indemnity policy is renewed and maintained for the period stated in the Annexure after the Date of Expiration or early termination of this Contract.  If no period is specified, it shall be 12 months for amounts less than $3.0 million and 2 years for amounts $3.0 million and greater.

When requested by the Principal, the Contractor shall provide acceptable proof of the currency and coverage of each insurance required by this Contract.  If the Contractor does not provide satisfactory evidence of compliance, the Principal may effect the relevant insurances and any costs and expenses incurred by the Principal in doing so will be a debt due and payable from the Contractor to the Principal.  The Principal may withhold payment until evidence of compliance with the Contractor's obligations under this clause is produced by the Contractor.

14.	RESOLUTION OF DISPUTES

In the event of a dispute arising between the Parties, it shall be resolved by the determination of an expert selected by mutual agreement, or if the Parties fail to agree within 7 days of one Party giving notice in writing, then by an expert selected by the President for the time being of the Law Society of South Australia Inc.

The expert's findings shall be final and binding on the Parties and his or her fees shall be paid by the Parties in equal shares.

Notwithstanding the existence of a dispute, each Party shall continue to perform its obligations under this Contract.  A Party may commence court proceedings relating to the dispute at any time where the Party seeks urgent interlocutory relief.

This Clause survives the expiration or termination of this Contract.

15.	GOODS AND SERVICES TAX

Payment from the Principal to the Contractor will include the GST payable.

Any invoice for payment under this Contract shall be a Tax Invoice in accordance with "A New Tax System (Goods and Services Tax) Act 1999".  The Principal is not obliged to make any payment under this Contract unless the Contractor has provided a Tax Invoice in respect of that payment.

16.	OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY

The Principal is committed to the provision of a healthy and safe working environment.  The Principal requires the Contractor to accept the same commitment to occupational health and safety and the Contractor shall comply, and ensure that its employees, agents and subcontractors comply, with the Occupational Health, Safety and Welfare Act, 1986 and any reasonable instruction issued by the Principal in relation to Occupational Health, Safety and Welfare (OHS&W).

If requested by the Principal, the Contractor shall:
* provide evidence satisfactory to the Principal of its capacity to comply with the Occupational Health, Safety and Welfare Act;
* provide evidence that its employees, agents and subcontractors have received appropriate training in and are aware of their legal obligation and responsibilities in relation to occupational health safety and welfare; and
* provide the Contractor's Workcover Registration Number.

The Contractor shall permit the Principal to carry out any inspections the Principal deems necessary to ensure that the Contractor is complying with the Occupational Health and Safety practices referred to in this Contract.

If all or part of the work under this Contract is to be provided on the premises of the Principal and under the direction of the Principal, the Contractor shall comply with the Principal's OHS&W policies, procedures and instructions.  If the Contractor becomes aware of any potentially hazardous situation on the premises of the Principal, the Contractor shall immediately bring it to the Principal's attention for a direction regarding the matter.

If the Principal has additional requirements regarding the preparation an implementation of OHS&W systems and plans, these will be detailed in the Statement of Requirements.




____________



ANNEXURE PART A


The Principal:


Minister for Transport / Energy / Infrastructure 
or
Commissioner of Highways (for projects funded by the Highways Fund).
The address of the Principal:
Roma Mitchell House
136 North Terrace
ADELAIDE  5000.
The Principal's Representative

Manager, ...................
The address of the Principal's Representative
33-37 Warwick Street,
WALKERVILLE SA 5081
or
Regional Address
Commencement DateDate of the Letter of Acceptance
or
Specified period from........
Expiry Date 

Specified Date
or
Specified period from........
or 
Refer to Statement of Requirements
The amount of Public Liability Insurance shall be not less than:
A$10 000 000The amount of Professional Indemnity Insurance shall be not less than:

The period for which Professional Indemnity Insurance shall be maintained is:
Not applicable.  or
A$1 000 000

.....years.
Payment will be by the method:Lump Sum/Upper Limiting Fee/Schedule of Rates




_____________




	


DTEI XXCxxx

Edition: September 2009	DTEI GCC Services - Minor



DTEI XXCxxx	Page 2

Revision 0	DTEI GCC Services - Minor
	Annexure






