VCOSSEnterprise Agreement 2006
1	TITLE	42	SCOPE AND APPLICATION	43	DATE OF OPERATION	44	RELATIONSHIP TO PARENT AWARD/COLLECTIVE BARGAINING	44.1	RELATIONSHIP TO SACS AWARD	44.2	COLLECTIVE BARGAINING	44.3	NEW EMPLOYEES TO BE COVERED BY AGREEMENT	45	IMPLEMENTATION OF AGREEMENT	45.1	JOINT CONSULTATIVE COMMITTEE (JCC)	55.2	SECURITY OF EMPLOYMENT	55.3	LEAVE RESERVED	56	DEFINITIONS	66.1	BULLYING	66.2	CASUAL EMPLOYMENT	66.3	CEO	66.4	EMPLOYEE	66.5	EXPRESSION OF INTEREST (EOI)	66.6	EXTENDED ABSENCE	66.7	FIXED TERM EMPLOYMENT	66.8	FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (FTE)	66.9	HARASSMENT	66.10	HUMAN RESOURCES STAFF	66.11	INTERNAL EMPLOYEE	66.12	MANAGEMENT TEAM	66.13	NEAR RELATIVE	66.14	PART TIME EMPLOYMENT	66.15	PERFORMANCE DEVELOPMENT AND MANAGEMENT PROGRAM	66.16	PROBATION PERIOD	66.17	SHORT-TERM VACANCY	66.18	VCOSS POLICIES	67	RECRUITMENT	67.1	EQUAL OPPORTUNITY AND AFFIRMATIVE ACTION	67.2	POSITION DESCRIPTIONS	67.3	RECRUITMENT PROCEDURE	67.4	CONCURRENT INTERNAL AND EXTERNAL ADVERTISING	67.5	INTERVIEW PROCESS	68	STATUS OF EMPLOYMENT	68.1	FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT	68.2	PART TIME EMPLOYMENT	68.3	CASUAL EMPLOYMENT	68.4	FIXED TERM EMPLOYMENT	68.5	REPLACEMENT EMPLOYEES	68.6	CONSULTANTS AND CONTRACTORS	68.7	JOB SHARING	68.8	SECONDMENT	68.9	CHANGES TO STATUS OF EMPLOYMENT	68.10	REDEPLOYMENT	68.11	CONTINUITY OF SERVICE	69	HOURS OF WORK	69.1	PART TIME HOURS	69.2	SPREAD OF HOURS	69.3	WORK BREAKS	69.4	TIME SHEETS	69.5	FLEXIBLE WORK ARRANGEMENTS (PREVIOUSLY 48/52)	69.6	TIME IN LIEU - OVERTIME	69.7	FLEXI-TIME	69.8	WORKING AT HOME	610	LEAVE	610.1	VARIATIONS TO ENTITLEMENT TO LEAVE	610.2	ANNUAL LEAVE	610.3	SICK LEAVE	610.4	BEREAVEMENT/COMPASSIONATE LEAVE	610.5	EXCEPTIONAL CIRCUMSTANCES LEAVE	610.6	PERSONAL AND FAMILY LEAVE	610.7	WELL-BEING LEAVE	610.8	LONG SERVICE LEAVE	610.9	STUDY LEAVE	610.10	LEAVE WITHOUT PAY	610.11	PARENTAL LEAVE	610.12	PUBLIC HOLIDAYS	610.13	JURY SERVICE	611	SALARY	611.1	CLASSIFICATION STRUCTURE	611.2	SALARY STRUCTURE	611.3	ANNUAL INDEXATION OF SALARIES	611.4	INCREMENTAL ADVANCES	611.5	MOVEMENT BETWEEN CLASSIFICATION LEVELS	611.6	HIGHER DUTIES PAYMENT	611.7	OCCUPATIONAL SUPERANNUATION	612	EXPENSES AND ALLOWANCES	612.1	PETTY CASH REIMBURSEMENTS	612.2	TRAVEL REIMBURSEMENTS	612.3	MEAL ALLOWANCES	612.4	TRANSPORT	612.5	ACCOMMODATION	613	TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT	614	WORKPLACE REPRESENTATION AND CONSULTATION	614.1	EMPLOYEE REPRESENTATIVES	614.2	TIME ALLOWANCES	614.3	TRAINING	615	OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY	615.1	OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY (OHS)	615.2	EMPLOYEE OHS RESPONSIBILITIES:	615.3	OHS CONSULTATION	615.4	OHS TRAINING	615.5	WORKPLACE INCIDENTS AND INJURY	615.6	HARASSMENT AND BULLYING	616	DISPUTE RESOLUTION	616.1	DISPUTE RESOLUTION AND GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE	616.2	DISCIPLINARY PROCEDURE	616.3	INDUSTRIAL RELATIONS	617	TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT	617.1	RESIGNATION	617.2	DISMISSAL	617.3	REDUNDANCY	617.4	OUTGOING EMPLOYEES	618	APPENDICES	6APPENDIX 1: CLASSIFICATION STRUCTURE	6APPENDIX 2: SALARY STRUCTURE	6APPENDIX 3: MEAL ALLOWANCE RATES	6APPENDIX 4: SACS AWARD	ERROR! BOOKMARK NOT DEFINED.
1 TitleThis Agreement shall be known as the Victorian Council of Social Service Enterprise Agreement 2006.2 Scope and ApplicationThis agreement shall be binding upon VCOSS and the Australian Municipal, Administrative, Clerical and Services Union (ASU) in respect of all persons who are eligible to join the ASU (whether members or not).All employees excluding the CEO, including people employed in projects auspiced by VCOSS, shall be employed in accordance with the conditions of employment as stated in this agreement.3 Date of OperationThis Agreement shall operate from 1 July 2006 and shall operate until 30 June 2009. The Agreement as varied and extended shall operate from the date of the order of Fair Work Australia and reach its nominal expiry date on 30 June 2012.4 Relationship to Parent Award/Collective Bargaining4.1 Relationship to SACS AwardIt is a term of this agreement that all the terms and conditions of the Social and Community Services - Victoria - Award 2000 (SACS Award) as at the date of certification of this agreement shall continue to apply to all employees eligible to be members of the union.In the event of any inconsistency between the incorporated award terms and the other terms of this agreement, the agreement prevails to the extent of the inconsistency, so far as the terms exceed the minimum entitlement set by the Award.  In the event that a term in this agreement fails to meet the basic Award entitlement, the Award entitlement will prevail. 4.2 Collective BargainingVCOSS is committed during the life of this agreement, and in its renegotiation, to negotiating collectively in respect of all its employees and their nominated representatives for the purposes of making a new agreement.  4.3 New employees to be covered by AgreementAn employee commencing his or her employment with VCOSS after the date on which this agreement comes into operation shall be employed in accordance with the terms of this agreement.  Further, the parties agree that no employee shall be employed other than under the terms of this agreement.The terms and conditions of the agreement shall be incorporated into the contract of employment of employees bound by this agreement.5 Implementation of AgreementA Joint Consultative Committee will oversee the implementation of the agreement, in cooperation with the Human Resources staff and the Management Team.  In implementing this agreement, VCOSS will consult with its employees on a particular matter by:? Sharing relevant information with the employees affected by the matter; and? Giving the employees affected by the matter a reasonable opportunity to express their views; and? Taking into account those views; and? Involving the JCC representatives in the consultation.Such consultation must take place in a timely manner.5.1 Joint Consultative Committee (JCC)The JCC is committed to co-operatively and positively increasing the efficiency and productivity of the organisation and to enhancing the training, career opportunities and job security of employees within the organisation.The JCC will:? Facilitate staff engagement, consultation and communication in relation to the implementation of this agreement;? Review proposed organisational change where it impacts on the implementation of this agreement;? Participate in the development of policies relating to employment matters; and? Be involved, as requested, in dispute resolution proceedings in accordance with clause 16 Dispute Resolution of this agreement.The JCC will meet at least quarterly.  JCC representatives shall be allowed reasonable time to prepare and participate in the workings of the JCC and shall be adequately trained through an agreed process to perform their role in paid work time.The JCC shall consist of:a. the CEO, andb. one staff member per each 15 employees, or part thereof, elected by the staff body, andc. one union representative, elected by ASU members of staff. Changes to the representatives serving on the JCC will be subject to consultation with and agreement from the staff body.  Elected positions are subject to re-election every twelve (12) months.  It is preferred that elected positions are representative of the diversity of roles within VCOSS.5.2 Security of EmploymentThe parties to this agreement shall take steps to ensure that VCOSS has a stable, committed and secure workforce.This shall be undertaken in the following ways:? Exploring methods to increase the security of the employees' employment;? Increasing investment in the productive capacity of the organisation;? Giving preference to the internal workforces in any competitive tendering/contracting out process;? Establishing agreed fixed minimum hours of employment for permanent part time or casual employees.5.3 Leave ReservedLeave is reserved to the parties to this agreement to discuss and introduce further agreed changes within the organisation that will enhance the efficiency and effectiveness of the organisation or enhance the conditions of employment of employees.Where agreement has been reached between the parties the agreed arrangements will form a supplementary agreement which shall be certified in the Australian Industrial Relations Commission under the provisions of Schedule 7, Part 2 of the Workplace Relations Act 1996/or any relevant subsequent legislation.6 Definitions6.1 BullyingBullying is repeated, unreasonable behaviour directed toward an employee, or group of employees, that creates a risk to health and safety.  The following types of behaviour, where repeated or occurring as part of a pattern, could be considered bullying:? Verbal or written abuse? Excluding or isolating employees? Psychological or physical harassment? Intimidation? Assigning meaningless tasks unrelated to the job? Giving employees impossible assignments? Deliberately changing work rosters to inconvenience particular employees? Deliberately withholding information that is vital for effective work performance 6.2 Casual employmentA casual employee shall mean an employee who is engaged for work of an intermittent, irregular and non-ongoing nature, and who is engaged as a casual in accordance with clause 8.3 of this agreement.6.3 CEOThe Chief Executive Officer of VCOSS as employed from time to time.6.4 EmployeeA person employed by VCOSS, and generally paid via the VCOSS payroll system, excluding the CEO and including a person employed in a project auspiced by VCOSS.  For the avoidance of doubt, no clause in this agreement relates to the employment of the CEO.6.5 Expression of interest (EOI)A role may be advertised via an EOI to ascertain the level of interest for a role within the organisation, without conducting a full recruitment process.  This method is appropriate for short term or temporary positions, or where it is reasonable to expect that there will not be any internal interest in the position. 6.6 Extended absenceA period of leave greater than six weeks, in accordance with the Extended Absence Policy as amended or varied by VCOSS from time to time. 6.7 Fixed term employmentA fixed term employee shall mean an employee who is engaged to work in a position that is temporary in nature for a specified period of time or for a specified task.  Fixed term employment may be on a full time or part time basis. 6.8 Full time employment (FTE)A full time employee shall mean an employee who is engaged to work 37.5 hours of ordinary time per week.  An employee employed on a full time basis will be entitled to the full benefits of this agreement.6.9 HarassmentHarassment is any form of verbal or physical behaviour that is uninvited, unwelcome and personally offensive to the recipient and creates an intimidating, hostile or offensive environment.  Harassment may take the form of, but is not limited to:? Sexism? Racism? Favouritism? Victimisation? Coercion? Jokes or innuendo? Torment, intimidation, abuse or assault.6.10 Human Resources staffThose employees who have primary responsibility for the Human Resources function at VCOSS from time to time.6.11 Internal employeeAn internal employee is:? an employee that is currently employed by VCOSS or has been within the previous six (6) months;? a volunteer or student intern that is currently working at VCOSS or has been within the last six (6) months.Any employee, volunteer or student intern who was dismissed by VCOSS will not be deemed to be an internal employee.Any employee who has been made redundant and/or been paid a severance payment by VCOSS will not be deemed to be an internal employee.6.12 Management TeamThe VCOSS senior management group as constituted from time to time and currently comprising Chief Executive Officer, Deputy Director, Policy Manager, Sector Development Manager, Membership & Communications Manager and Business & Development Director.  In relation to an employee they manage, the members of the team are referred to individually as 'their manager' or 'the relevant manager'.6.13 Near relative? A spouse, partner or de facto partner; or? A dependant child; or? A parent or step-parent (or parent-in-law); or? A sibling or a sibling of the employee's partner; or? A grandparent or step-grandparent (or grandparent-in-law); or? Another relative or close personal friend or other relevant person as agreed between VCOSS and the employee.6.14 Part time employmentA part time employee shall mean an employee who is engaged to work regular ordinary hours of less than 37.5 per week.  Employees working on a part time basis are entitled to the benefits of this agreement on a pro rata basis, except where otherwise stated.6.15 Performance Development and Management ProgramVCOSS is committed to a collaborative approach between managers and employees which provides a regular avenue for giving and receiving feedback.  In order to achieve this, VCOSS has introduced a Performance Development and Management Program which governs:? Annual work plans;? Individual career goals;? Identification of training and development needs; and? Regular meetings and feedbackFor further information refer to the Performance Development and Management Program Policy, as amended from time to time.6.16 Probation periodAn agreed period at the commencement of an employee's employment with VCOSS during which time the employment can be terminated by VCOSS if the employee's performance is not satisfactory.  The probation period will generally be for three (3) months.6.17 Short-term vacancyA vacancy of thirteen (13) weeks or less.6.18 VCOSS policiesDocumented and approved protocols covering particular internal processes at VCOSS.  Such policies may be referred to throughout this agreement.  They do not form part of this agreement and VCOSS retains the right to vary such policies from time to time.7 Recruitment7.1 Equal Opportunity and Affirmative ActionVCOSS values diversity amongst its employees and is committed to the principles of equal opportunity and affirmative action in order to create an inclusive environment.  VCOSS recognises that some people are affected by disadvantage or discrimination in employment and will take active steps to ensure employment policies and practices enable the workplace to remain free from discrimination and harassment.This commitment to achieving equality of employment opportunity applies to all phases of employment, including but not limited to, selection and appointment of personnel, promotion, training, superannuation, compensation benefits and terms and conditions of employment.  VCOSS will also provide appropriate support and flexibility to deliver on this commitment.All discriminatory behaviour is undesirable, may be unlawful and will not be tolerated.  VCOSS expects that all employees, volunteers and student interns will take responsibility for fair, non-discriminatory behaviour.  Any reports of discrimination against an employee will be treated seriously by VCOSS, and will be investigated thoroughly and confidentially.7.2 Position DescriptionsVCOSS will provide a position description for all positions within the organisation.  These will be made available to all employees.  Position descriptions will be reviewed at least annually as part of the Performance Development and Management Program, in order to ensure that the position description reflects the current duties of the role.  The position description shall not be altered by VCOSS except with the written consent of the employee.Position descriptions may be reviewed and altered prior to the appointment of a new employee to a vacant position in consultation with Human Resources staff.  Position descriptions will be made available to all potential applicants when advertising a vacancy.  7.3 Recruitment ProcedureVCOSS has a commitment to the ongoing employment of its employees.  Any new appointment covered by this agreement will be advertised internally first, excluding secondment to VCOSS and subject to VCOSS running concurrent internal and external advertising in accordance with clause 7.4 Concurrent Internal and External Advertising.  This can be undertaken by calling for either expressions of interest (EOI) or applications.  All advertisements and expressions of interest for vacant positions will be circulated to all internal employees.EOIs should: ? be circulated to all internal employees via email; and? be additionally circulated to employees who will be absent during the response time; and? give a minimum response time of 48 hours; and? clearly state what response is expected, ie how an employee is to express their interest; and? allow additional time after close of response time to complete an application, where applicable.With the exception of a short-term vacancy as defined in clause 6.17 Short-term vacancy, if an internal selection procedure is not successful, vacancies will then be advertised externally.All proposed new appointments must be approved by the CEO.  Prior to advertising the position, a position description must be finalised in accordance with clause 7.2 Position Descriptions.  Position descriptions must be made available to all potential applicants.All new appointments will be required to undergo the interview process set out in clause 7.6 Interview Process. 7.4 Concurrent Internal and External AdvertisingFrom time to time there may be instances where it is necessary to advertise appointments internally and externally concurrently.VCOSS PartnershipsVCOSS is often involved with other organisations to form cross-organisational or cross-sectoral collaborations.  From time to time, employment opportunities arise from these bodies, which therefore means VCOSS is not the sole agency with a stake in the position, despite the position being housed and managed at VCOSS. These situations may include, but are not limited to situations where:? the other party/parties has provided funding or other significant resources to support the creation of the position; or? VCOSS is party to a memorandum of understanding or other formal agreement.In such situations, where the other party requests, it is reasonable to advertise the position through external sources, particularly through the networks of the other stakeholders, whilst advertising internally at VCOSS. 7.5 Short term vacanciesIf the internal advertising process is unsuccessful when recruiting for a short term position, suitably qualified people (internal or external to VCOSS) can be invited to apply, removing the requirement to advertise externally if the position is able to be filled in this manner. 7.6 Interview ProcessInterview PanelsAll appointments will require an interview.  Interview panels for all positions covered by this agreement will consist of:? The relevant manager/project co-ordinator of proposed position (Panel Co-ordinator); and? A JCC representative or other relevant member of staff agreed in consultation with the JCC; and? One non-management member of the Team or Project and/or independent person with expertise in the field.Each of the above members may choose to delegate their authority to a coopted person who has relevant skills to enable them to act on behalf of the delegating member.  Interview panels will not exceed four members. 8 Status of EmploymentAt the time of engagement, VCOSS will provide the employee with written advice of the terms of their employment, specifying whether they are full time, part time or casual and the duration of the contract where applicable.  The letter of offer should also outline the employee's classification and rate of pay and any other information relevant to the employment agreement.8.1 Full time EmploymentA full time employee shall mean an employee who is engaged to work 37.5 hours of ordinary time per week in accordance with the provisions of clause 9 Hours of Work.  An employee employed on a full time basis will be entitled to the full benefits of this agreement.Employees working in a full time capacity have the option to negotiate the change to a part time position.  Acknowledging that the organisation's operational needs will be taken into account, such requests shall not be unreasonably refused.8.2 Part time EmploymentA part time employee shall mean an employee who is engaged to work regular ordinary hours of less than 37.5 per week.  Employees working on a part time basis are entitled to the benefits of this agreement on a pro rata basis.A part time employment shift will not be for less than three (3) consecutive hours except:? where the employee works from home by agreement with their manager; or? in exceptional circumstances with the agreement of VCOSS.Any part time employee who undertakes another employment contract within VCOSS, will be paid at the ordinary rate to a maximum of 37.5 hours per week.  Any additional hours worked under such a contract, will be included in the pro rata calculation for the employee's entitlements. 8.3 Casual EmploymentCasual employment will not be used to undermine the job security of full time and part time employees engaged under this agreement, and will be limited to:? temporary relief or replacement employees; or? short term, intermittent or irregular employment; or? positions where it is not possible or practical to offer additional work to existing part time employees; or? situations where specialist skills are required, which are not continuing, and would not be anticipated to be met by existing employees. A casual employee will be engaged for a minimum period of three (3) consecutive hours per shift.An employee engaged on a casual basis shall be paid the hourly rate as defined by their position description, plus a loading of twenty-five percent (25%) in lieu of paid leave and public holidays.8.4 Fixed term EmploymentFixed term employees will be entitled to the provisions contained within this agreement unless otherwise specified. If a fixed term employee is subsequently appointed to an ongoing position with VCOSS, any period of the fixed term contract completed immediately prior to the commencement of the permanent position shall be recognised as service with VCOSS for the purpose of calculating leave entitlements, pursuant to clause 8.11 Continuity of Service provided that the employee has not taken or received a redundancy payment. A fixed term employee will be paid severance pay if their employment contract ends and they have been employed by VCOSS for more than 2 years.8.5 Replacement EmployeesA replacement employee means an employee engaged for a specific period of time or temporarily promoted or transferred to fill a vacancy arising due to the extended leave of an employee.8.6 Consultants and contractorsConsultants or contractors will be engaged only in cases where specialist and/or technical expertise or equipment is required and where the task is something not ordinarily to be done by people employed under the EBA.  VCOSS will not enter into additional contractual arrangements with existing employees.  8.7 Job SharingIn recognition of the changing nature of work and to support work-life balance, VCOSS will support job sharing.  Job sharing must be negotiated prior to engagement in the instance of new employment, or with the relevant manager for existing employees.  Work plans, including the division of specific tasks, responsibilities and accountability pertaining to the position, will be developed with the relevant manager. Job share employees will have a responsibility to ensure that a high level of continuity exists between the two positions, including ensuring a handover period on a regular basis. In the event that either employee in a job share position resigns or is dismissed, their position will be offered to the incumbent in the first instance.  If this offer is not taken up, the vacant hours shall be filled in accordance with clause 7 Recruitment.8.8 SecondmentSecondment is the transfer of an employee from their regular employment to a temporary assignment elsewhere.Secondment to VCOSSVCOSS may second an employee when particular expertise is required from outside the organisation.  A secondment can be filled as a short term vacancy as per clause 7 Recruitment, however a secondment does not need to be internally advertised. Employment conditions and contracts will be negotiated between employers and the seconded employee on a case by case basis.Secondment of a VCOSS employeeA request for secondment to another position outside the organisation should be made to the relevant manager in the first instance.  The final decision will take into account the burden to VCOSS in filling the vacant position, the time frame in question, staff development potential and the importance of sharing expertise within the sector. As in other similar leave applications, an employee on secondment will have their position held open for them during their absence, subject to funding.  The decision to replace an employee on secondment is at the discretion of the relevant manager, taking into consideration the workload of the team and any other concurrent employee absences.Employment conditions and contracts will be negotiated between employers and the seconded employee on a case by case basis.Secondment within VCOSSA secondment may occur from time to time within VCOSS.  A secondment may be appropriate to staff a short term position that has a fixed ending or where VCOSS needs to temporarily redirect resources.  If an employee is seconded to another position within VCOSS, their original position will be held open for them to return to once the secondment has been completed.  The normal internal advertising process will apply for positions eligible for secondment.  When a suitable candidate has been selected, the request to second should be made to the relevant manager and the decision will take into account the time frame in question, staff development potential and operational needs.  The decision to replace an employee on secondment is at the discretion of the relevant manager, taking into consideration the workload of the team and any other concurrent employee absences.8.9 Changes to Status of EmploymentAn employee's status of employment can be altered at any time, so long as the following conditions are met:? both parties are in agreement with regards to the proposed changes; and? the proposed changes do not breach any of the terms contained within the agreement; and? operational requirements have been taken into account and both parties are satisfied that the proposed changes do not adversely affect other employees or the organisation.8.10 RedeploymentWhere an existing VCOSS employee has been informed by VCOSS that their position is to be made redundant, the relevant manager will explore the possibility of redeploying that employee to an alternative position within VCOSS which is vacant or expected to arise, and which the relevant manager deems suitable for that employee given the employee's experience, knowledge and qualifications.VCOSS will make reasonable endeavours to retrain such an employee so they can be redeployed into a vacant role within VCOSS.  However, the parties acknowledge that in some circumstances it will not be feasible for an employee to be retrained to perform a particular role.If the relevant manager is unsure whether a particular vacant position is suitable for a particular employee, or whether the employee could perform the role after retraining, the relevant manager may refer the issue to a panel constituted of the persons referred to in clause 7.6 Interview Process.  This panel will conduct an interview and may carry out a reference check and/or review of recent performance appraisal, in order to determine whether the employee has the skills to perform the vacant role and/or whether they could perform that role after retraining. After completing this investigation, the panel will make a recommendation to the relevant manager as to whether the employee can perform the vacant role.  If the panel's recommendation is that the employee cannot perform the vacant role, it will make a further recommendation to the relevant manager as to whether retraining is a feasible option to enable the employee to perform the role.  If the relevant manager, or other authorised officer of VCOSS, determines that retraining is feasible, the retraining option will be explored and implemented with the employee.If the number of redundant employees is greater than the number of vacant positions, an interview process conducted by VCOSS based on merit will form the basis of VCOSS's selection.  A position description will be made available to all applicants prior to interview.8.11 Continuity of ServiceFor the purposes of calculating an employee's entitlements under this agreement, continuity of service is not broken:? if VCOSS continues to employ, or re-employs within 6 months, an employee who has completed a fixed term contract; or? by an absence on unpaid leave approved by VCOSS; or? if an employee has been seconded to another employer.The period of the break in service does not count toward the accrual of entitlements.  Continuity of service is broken where severance pay is paid.9 Hours of WorkThe ordinary hours of work shall be 37.5 hours per week and shall be worked in accordance with clause 9.2 Spread of Hours.9.1 Part Time HoursEmployees who are employed part time will have their hours of work per fortnight specified in their letter of employment.  Any permanent or regular adjustment to these hours needs to be agreed upon with the relevant manager and approved by the CEO.9.2 Spread of HoursThe VCOSS office is open to the public from 9.00am until 5.00pm.  The spread of hours for work at VCOSS is 7.00am until 7.00pm Monday to Friday.  Employees may manage their own hours of work, provided that they work no more than a ten (10) hour day.  Hours of work outside the hours of 7.00am until 7.00pm and on weekends must be approved by the relevant manager.All employees are considered to be responsible professionals and therefore able to organise their time flexibly to balance their personal needs, occupational wellbeing and the operational needs of the organisation.  The purpose of these flexible hours is to enable employees to tailor their work around personal commitments and to work extra hours to take a day off from time to time.  Employees are thereby to negotiate their hours (including outside office hours) with their manager and team members.9.3 Work BreaksAll employees are entitled to up to one hour lunch break free from work, and are required to take a half hour unpaid lunch break.Every employee working a full day, however defined, shall be entitled to at least two fifteen (15) minute paid breaks from duty additional to their lunch break so as to allow physical relaxation and regeneration of concentration levels.  Employees working less than a full day shall have a pro-rata entitlement.9.4 Time SheetsAll employees are required to record their hours worked in their individual time sheet in the format issued by VCOSS from time to time.  Employees are required to complete their time sheets on a daily basis to ensure that all working hours and breaks are recorded accurately. 9.5 Flexible Work Arrangements (previously 48/52)A flexible work year arrangement allows an employee to purchase an additional four weeks of leave in a year.  The additional leave is paid for via a corresponding reduction in fortnightly pay spread out evenly over the course of the year.  The employee effectively takes four weeks of leave without pay but can spread the salary impact of it over 26 pay periods.The four (4) weeks of purchased leave will be identified separately from annual leave and will be known as additional leave.To be eligible for a flexible work year arrangement, an employee must have at least twelve (12) months of future service available under their current employment contract.  A flexible work year arrangement must apply for at least a whole year.  Periods greater than a year must be in multiples of six months.  An application must be made:? by 15 December to apply for the following calendar year; or? by 30 June to apply for the following financial year; or? upon commencement of employment to apply for a year from commencement date.An employee can apply for a flexible work year arrangement for reasons including, but not limited to:? childcare during school holidays;? other caring responsibilities;? taking an extended holiday;? family commitments;? study commitments;? other personal circumstances.For further information refer to the Flexible Work Year Policy, as amended or varied from time to time. 9.6 Time in Lieu - OvertimeTime-in-lieu is accrued when an employee is requested to perform a specified task outside the spread of hours for work at VCOSS, or when the employee works over ten (10) hours of work in any one day.VCOSS will allow employees to take proportionate time off in lieu of payment of overtime.  Time-in-lieu is accrued at the rate of time and a half for the first two hours and double time thereafter.  Time-in-lieu is to be used to manage overtime worked by an employee at the request of VCOSS.  Flexi-time provisions are to be used to manage time within the normal spread of hours.Time-in-lieu may be granted for purposes including, but not limited to:? Rural work, or? Running conferences out of the normal spread of hours, at weekends or on public holidays, or? Attending evening or weekend workshops, meetings conferences or functions, or? Staying overnight away from home for work purposes, during which time TIL will be granted at the rate of half a working day for each night away from home subject to clause 12.2 Travel Reimbursements. Casual employees will receive wage equivalent, or? Peak periods of work as agreed with the relevant manager, or? Approved professional development outside of normal working hours, or ? Other activities as directed by the relevant manager from time to time.Where possible, all time-in-lieu must be authorised by the relevant manager before it is accumulated.  Time-in-lieu should be recorded on the employee's time sheet as accrued.Accrual of time-in-lieu must not exceed 37.5 hours in total, pro rata for part-time employees, and must be taken within six (6) months, unless exceptional circumstances prevent this from occurring.  Time-in-lieu must be discussed with the relevant manager and approved accordingly.VCOSS is obligated to review working hours and an employee's workload as part of the Performance Development and Management Program.  As part of this process, employees who have accrued excessive hours of time-in-lieu should be assisted with a plan to reduce the accrued hours and to ensure that the employee's workload is manageable within their specific working hours.The payment of accrued time-in-lieu is not a standard practice at the time of resignation.  However, it is open to negotiation between the employee and the CEO taking into consideration VCOSS's operational requirements and the obligations under the Performance Development and Management Program as detailed above.Employees made redundant, as per clause 17.3 Redundancy of this agreement, shall be paid out any outstanding time-in-lieu hours. 9.7 Flexi-TimeFlexi-time is accrued when an employee works over the number of hours per fortnight that they have been employed to work, but not exceeding ten (10) hours per day or hours worked after 7pm or on weekends.  Any time worked outside the normal spread of hours is time-in-lieu for which authorisation is required.Employees may elect to use the flexi-time system to work up a day off (or part of a day).Unless exceptional circumstances apply, employees may accumulate up to a maximum of 37.5 hours flexi-time, pro rata for part-time employees, which is to be taken within a three (3) month period as negotiated with the relevant manager in order to accommodate operational requirements.9.8 Working at HomeVCOSS recognises that sometimes working at home may be necessary.  However, VCOSS aims to provide a comfortable and safe workplace, and all efforts are made to create an environment which is conductive to meeting employment obligations and which is worker friendly.Employees wishing to work at home must reach agreement with their manager.  Agreement should be based on specific task allocation.  When working at home, employees are required to notify reception, giving details of when they will be back in the office and a number where they can be contacted if required.Authorisation to work at home may be sought in the following circumstances:? Work environment is unsatisfactory (this may mean that the employee does not have their own desk and phone, they may share an office and need quiet time to write);? Employee has impending deadlines and needs to commit solid time, without interruption, to one project;? Family commitment where other arrangement cannot be made;? Air conditioning or power failure, or other necessary amenities at office are not working.Any pre-determined working at home time should be discussed with the relevant manager.  Work done at home shall be monitored, according to agreement between parties concerned. In reaching agreement regarding working at home, the relevant manager must take into consideration the employee's obligations at the office (e.g. attending staff meetings, answering calls etc.) in order to minimise the impact of their absence on other employees, and ensure that all teams are appropriately staffed.10 LeaveEmployees are entitled to the following leave entitlements in accordance with the employment status as outlined in clause 8 Status of Employment.  Part time employees will receive the entitlements pro rata.10.1 Variations to entitlement to leaveIf an employee has significantly varied their hours of work during the course of their employment, their entitlements to long service leave and paid maternity leave will be paid at the greater of:? the average number of hours worked in the twelve (12) months prior to taking leave; or? the average number of hours worked in the five (5) years (or less if employed less than five (5) years) prior to taking leave.If an employee is on a period of paid leave at the time when a new or varied agreement takes effect, and the entitlement to that type of leave is increased by the implementation of the new or varied agreement, then the employee will receive the higher entitlement effective under the new or varied agreement. 10.2 Annual LeaveEmployees shall be entitled to annual leave on full pay for a period equal to four (4) working weeks for each continuous twelve (12) month service, as per the SACS award.It is preferable that employees do not carry forward into the following year an amount in excess of six (6) weeks annual leave.  If at any time an employee has accrued more than 8 weeks annual leave, VCOSS may direct them to take up to two (2) weeks of that leave.Holiday LoadingAll employees are entitled to a 17.5% loading calculated on four (4) weeks gross salary per year as stipulated in the SACS Award.  This is paid when the leave is taken.If an employee leaves the organisation for any reason, the pro rata loading shall be paid, calculated with gross base salary at the time of resignation, except in those circumstances which justify instant dismissal under clause 17.2 Dismissal, of this agreement.10.3 Sick LeaveSick leave entitlements, in accordance with the SACS Award, shall be cumulative from the time of employment and determined in accordance with the following rate:? During the first, second, third and fourth years of employment, 14 working days in each year; and? Thereafter, 21 working days in each year.Employees who are absent from work because of illness for more than four (4) days at a time must produce a medical certificate supplied by a recognised health practitioner.  No more than ten (10) single days in any one year may be taken without the production of a medical certificate.  Sick leave on either side of a Public Holiday will not be paid without a medical certificate.All employees shall be able to use up to five (5) days in any one year for the purpose of caring for sick family or household members or in extreme compassionate circumstances.  This may be taken either from their own sick leave entitlement, or as unpaid leave if they have used up their own entitlement.10.4 Bereavement/Compassionate LeaveUpon the death of a near relative, an employee will be entitled to three (3) ordinary days paid leave, which will include the day of the funeral.The relevant manager is to be notified of any application for bereavement/compassionate leave.10.5 Exceptional Circumstances LeaveVCOSS has established this process to give its employees stability and security of uninterrupted income during periods of absence from work because of illness or other exceptional circumstances.VCOSS will consider a request for additional leave for a period of up to four (4) weeks annually.  This leave may not be accrued.Employees will be required to use all personal leave entitlements prior to making an application for Exceptional Circumstances Leave.10.6 Personal and Family LeaveThe purpose of this clause is to enable employees with caring responsibilities to take a limited amount of time off during ordinary working hours without loss of pay to meet those responsibilities, where it would be unreasonable to expect them to make alternative arrangements.Personal and family leave may be taken for reasons such as, but not limited to:? Traditional or customary leave; or? Caring for a near relative; or? Attending to the education of a dependent child; or? Moving house; or? Volunteering;where these tasks cannot reasonably be performed outside working hours and where alternative arrangements are either inappropriate, unavailable or impractical.Eligibility for Personal and Family LeaveAn employee is entitled to a total of up to and including five (5) days Personal and Family Leave, pro rata, on full pay for each twelve (12) months of continuous service with VCOSS.  Entitlements will not accumulate from year to year.Application for Personal and Family LeaveWhere practical, an employee wishing to take Personal and Family Leave will notify their manager before taking leave, stating the reason for seeking leave.Where the reason is the illness of a person requiring care or the illness of the usual care giver, and the employee is absent for more than four (4) consecutive days, the employee will provide a medical certificate.10.7 Well-being LeaveThe purpose of this clause is to allow employees to take additional leave to maintain their own well-being.Eligibility for Well-being LeaveAll employees are entitled to three (3) days Well-being Leave pro rata on full pay for each twelve (12) months of continuous service with VCOSS.  Entitlements will not accumulate from year to year.  Application for Well-being LeaveAn employee wishing to take Well-being Leave must apply to their manager in advance and it must be taken in whole days to the extent possible.  Employees with an entitlement to part of a day will be encouraged to combine it with other leave to make a full day.10.8 Long Service LeaveAll employees are entitled to Long Service Leave equivalent to thirteen (13) weeks after ten (10) years of service. Employees are entitled to take their Long Service Leave pro rata after five (5) years of service, in accordance with the following table:Length of serviceWeeks payable5 years6.56 years7.87 years9.18 years10.49 years11.710 years13.0	Long Service Leave will be paid at the employee's current pay rate unless the employee has significantly varied their hours of work during the course of their employment (as detailed above).10.9 Study LeaveEmployees may be entitled to take study leave without loss of pay in order to undertake a course of study (or part of a course) relevant to their current position/role, other organisational needs or career advancement, as approved by their manager. Employees are entitled to take leave for up to one (1) half day per week if contact study hours fall on an employee's work day.  In addition, one day of study leave per exam, plus leave on the day of the exam, if it falls on an employee's work day, may be taken. Additional time without loss of pay may be granted at the discretion of VCOSS.  Part time employees are entitled to study leave on a pro rata basis.10.10 Leave Without PayLeave without pay shall be granted by agreement for the purpose of:? Professional development; or? Extended study relevant to work (e.g. Masters, PhD); or? Secondment to a position; or? Personal reasons (e.g. parenting or caring responsibilities, travel).Application for leave without pay is to be made in writing by an employee to the relevant manager.  Application for leave without pay is only open to employees who have been employed by VCOSS for at least twelve (12) months.  The application will need to outline the period of time and the purpose of the leave. Applications for extended leave without pay will be required to give three (3) months notice of the intention to take LWOP.  The CEO will be responsible for the final decision.For the purposes of calculating "length of service", any periods of leave without pay are not included, in accordance with the governing legislation.  Accordingly, taking leave without pay will reduce an employee's entitlements to various forms of paid leave. For further information refer to the Extended Absence Policy, as amended or varied by VCOSS from time to time. 10.11 Parental LeaveLeave reservedLeave is reserved to discuss and introduce further agreed changes to this clause, subsequent to the release of Federal legislation covering the government-funded Paid Parental Leave Scheme.Eligibility for Paid Parental LeaveAn employee who has completed at least twelve (12) months' service is entitled to parental leave, to care for a newborn, adopted or permanent placement fostered child, in accordance with the SACS Award. An employee eligible under this clause is entitled to a period of paid parental leave.Maternity LeavePaid Maternity Leave is available for a total of thirteen (13) weeks granted with full salary.  Employees may elect to take Paid Maternity Leave over a longer period as agreed with VCOSS, eg employees may take twenty-six (26) weeks of leave paid at 50% of full salary.  Any remaining period of Maternity Leave will be taken as unpaid leave of absence.  VCOSS will allow employees, to the extent possible, to maximise their entitlement to benefits under any applicable government-funded maternity leave scheme.Paid maternity leave will be paid at the employee's current pay rate unless the employee has significantly varied their hours of work during the course of their employment (refer to clause 10.1 Variations to entitlement to leave above).If during the period of paid Maternity Leave, a pregnancy results in a stillbirth, the employee is entitled to complete the period of paid Maternity Leave at full pay.Co-Parental LeavePaid Co-Parental Leave is available to an employee who is parenting a new born or adopted child, but who is not the primary care giver, for a period of four (4) weeks.If during the period of paid Co-Parental leave, a pregnancy results in a stillbirth, the employee is entitled to complete the period of paid Co-Parental Leave at full pay.Unpaid Parental LeaveIn addition to Paid Parental Leave, the parent who is the primary care giver is entitled to unpaid leave of absence to extend the total period of leave up to twelve (12) months.  During the unpaid period of parental leave, further entitlements to sick leave, recreation leave and paid public holidays do not accrue and cannot, therefore, be used to extend the period of paid leave.Commencement and Completion of Parental LeaveAn employee will, at least ten (10) weeks prior to the presumed date of birth, give notice in writing to VCOSS stating the presumed date of birth.The employee will give at least four (4) weeks notice, in writing, of their intention to commence Maternity Leave and the period of leave to be taken. VCOSS recognises that commencement of Maternity Leave may not follow original intent and will be flexible and accommodating with changing circumstances provided that employees notify VCOSS of changes as soon as practical. Variation of Period of LeaveBy giving at least fourteen (14) days of notice in writing, an employee may shorten or lengthen the period of leave to be taken; provided this is done only once within the total period of leave (except by agreement with VCOSS).Illness Before Commencement of Maternity LeaveWhere an employee not then on maternity leave suffers illness related to her pregnancy, she may take sick leave to which she is then entitled and such further special maternity leave as a registered medical practitioner certifies as necessary before her return to work.Special Parental LeaveMaternity LeaveWhere the pregnancy of an employee not then on paid maternity leave terminates after twenty weeks (20) other than by the birth of a living child, then the employee is entitled to take up to four weeks of paid Special Maternity Leave to assist with recovery.  In addition, she may use accrued sick leave entitlements or a period of unpaid leave, as a registered medical practitioner certifies as necessary.Co-Parental LeaveWhere the pregnancy of a partner terminates after twenty (20) weeks other than by the birth of a living child, then the employee is entitled to take up to one week of paid Special Co-Parental Leave.Returning to WorkWhen an employee returns to work after a period of parental leave, VCOSS must provide the employee with similar duties at the same classification level to those performed immediately before the employee commenced parental leave.  A full time employee who is the primary care giver, will be entitled to negotiate a return to part time work following parental leave, subject to operational requirements.  In the interests of a smooth transition to part time work, part time arrangements must be negotiated four (4) weeks prior to returning to work.Termination of EmploymentAn employee may terminate his or her employment at any time during the period of leave by giving notice in accordance with this agreement.Replacement EmployeesA replacement employee is an employee specifically engaged or temporarily promoted or transferred to fill a vacancy arising due to Parental Leave.Before VCOSS employs a replacement employee or transfers an existing employee under this sub-clause, VCOSS will inform him or her of the temporary nature of the employment or transfer and of the rights of the employee who is being replaced.10.12 Public HolidaysEmployees are entitled to receive full pay for a public holiday that occurs on a regular working day for that employee, as per the SACS Award.VCOSS and an employee may agree to substitute another day for any of the public holidays prescribed in the Social and Community Services - Victoria - Award 2000.An agreement pursuant to the above shall be recorded in writing and be available to all affected employees and the ASU.In addition, employees will be entitled to days off with full pay on the days falling between Boxing Day and New Years Day and any additional days at the discretion of the CEO, known as 'Grace & Favour' leave.  The VCOSS office will remain closed during this period.10.13 Jury ServiceA full time, part time or fixed term employee required to attend for jury service during their ordinary working hours shall be reimbursed by VCOSS an amount equal to the difference between the amount paid in respect of their attendance for such jury service and the amount of wages they would have received in respect of the ordinary time they would have worked had they not been on jury service.An employee shall notify VCOSS as soon as possible of the date upon which they are required to attend for jury service.  Further the employee shall give their employer documentary proof of their attendance, the duration of such attendance and the amount received in respect of such jury service.11 Salary11.1 Classification Structure VCOSS will classify staff in accordance with the classification level and descriptors as set out in APPENDIX 1: CLASSIFICATION STRUCTURE.The classifications cover the five levels of work as performed by employees. The purpose of the classification descriptions is to classify positions, rather than describe the work in detail.  The descriptions for each level are intended to cover a range of positions and are therefore generic in nature.  Elements that are specific to the position are contained in the position description including classification level.Position descriptions shall be used as the primary source of classifying positions.  The position description shall be compared to the classification description to determine which level best describes and fits the position description.  VCOSS may appoint an employee on a pay point other than the entry point based on an employee's previous relevant experience and skills. At each level employees perform work above and beyond that of the level below and to the level of their training/experience/capabilities.  Whilst employees will perform work above the level of their classification from time to time, the majority of the work performed should be at the level of their classification. Progression through the salary points within a classification level is in accordance with clause 11.4 Incremental Advances.Progression from one level to a higher level is only accessible through promotion, reclassification or a successful application for a new position at a higher grade.Any dispute about classification and salary levels or pay points will be dealt with under clause 16 Dispute Resolution.11.2 Salary Structure Refer to APPENDIX 2: SALARY STRUCTURE for salary levels11.3 Annual Indexation of Salaries The salary structure in Appendix 2 will be indexed annually at 3.25%, payable for the whole of the first pay period ending on or after 1 July each year and subsequent pay periods in that financial year.  11.4 Incremental AdvancesAll employees will be entitled to annual incremental progression within the salary and classification level, until the maximum increment is reached.  The incremental increase is payable on the twelve month anniversary of the employee's commencement, promotion or last salary advancement at the employee's current salary and classification level.An employee is not eligible for annual incremental progression if the employee is at the maximum point of his/her salary and classification range.An annual incremental review will be undertaken by VCOSS for all full-time and part-time employees in order to assess the employee's progression within the classification level.  In cases where the review is delayed, the anniversary date of the twelve month review shall not be changed and the increase if any will be paid retrospectively to the anniversary date.The annual incremental progression from one incremental point to the next within each classification level shall be automatic unless formal disciplinary or performance appraisal processes have been commenced. If such processes have been commenced then an outcome of the process may be the non-award of an increment for a period of up to twelve months.At the end of a probation period, as part of a probationary review, an application for accelerated incremental progression within the level can be made by an employee or recommended by their Manager.  Approval for an accelerated incremental progression can only be given by the CEO or their delegate and is limited to approval of two incremental pay points (eg movement from pay point 1 to pay point 3) within a classification level.11.5 Movement Between Classification LevelsMovement between classification levels, eg from Level 2 to Level 3, will occur when the following conditions are met:? An employee applies for and is promoted to a position that is placed on a higher level within the salary structure, in accordance with clause 7 Recruitment of this agreement, or? A position description or role alters significantly enough that it fits the descriptors of a higher level. An employee may make a written application for reclassification of his or her position where there has been either: ? Significant and identifiable changes in the nature of work and duties performed; or? Significant changes in the skills, knowledge and experience required when undertaking the duties; or? Significant increases in accountability and judgement;Should an employee be successful in his or her position being reclassified the date of effect shall be the date of lodgement of the application. 11.6 Higher Duties PaymentAny employee who is called upon to perform the duties of another employee on a higher classification under the agreement for a period of five (5) consecutive working days or more shall receive higher duties allowance.  The 'higher duties' salary must be at least equivalent to the base salary level for the position.11.7 Occupational SuperannuationOccupational superannuation is payable to all employees to at least the rate of 9% as specified in the Superannuation Guarantee Legislation.The HESTA fund is the preferred fund for occupational superannuation, however employees may, subject to statutory requirements, request payments to be directed to any other fund or funds, and such a request shall not be unreasonably refused.12 Expenses and Allowances12.1 Petty Cash ReimbursementsIn recognition of the expenses incurred by employees for work related purposes/activities VCOSS will reimburse any reasonable expenses through petty cash.  Expenses may include but are not limited to:? Travel;? Stationery;? Parking;? Staff amenities.Where petty cash requirements are likely to exceed $20, prior approval from the relevant manager must be sought.  Petty cash should only be used for purposes where an expense cannot be charged to a company account. Information on company accounts can be obtained from finance.12.2 Travel ReimbursementsAny employee who is required to stay away overnight will have to option to choose either an allowance of $116 (annually indexed in the same manner as salaries), or to take 3.75 hours time-in-lieu (to be taken in accordance with TIL procedure).  Employees are also entitled to a meal allowance for meals not provided, when work involves an overnight stay.  Meal allowances will be paid in accordance with the appropriate ruling provided by the Australian Taxation Office from time to time.  The current rates are set out in APPENDIX 3: MEAL ALLOWANCE RATES.Accommodation will be paid for by VCOSS. (See clause 12.5 Accommodation)Intrastate TravelWhere employees are required to travel within the state to regional areas for work purposes, the employee may have the option to choose an overnight stay where they are unable to return home within normal business hours from the destination.  On approving an overnight stay, the relevant manager will take into consideration:? The length of the overall working day, including travel time to the destination;? The likelihood of the employee returning home by 7pm;? The mode of transport for travel to and from the destination;? Ensuring the health, wellbeing and safety of the employee is not compromised by the extended travel home, particularly in instances where travel to the destination is by car.12.3 Meal AllowancesEmployees that are required by VCOSS to work more than nine (9) hours without advance notice, are entitled to a meal allowance, in accordance with the appropriate ruling provided by the Australian Taxation Office from time to time.  The current rates are set out in APPENDIX 3: MEAL ALLOWANCE RATES.  Meal allowance is not payable if meals are provided free of charge (e.g. as part of a Conference).12.4 TransportTaxi FaresTaxis may be used if travel by public transport is not possible, practical or convenient.  Cab charge vouchers are available as the preferred option of payment, full reimbursement for taxi costs will be made on production of receipts.The use of taxis will be limited to:? Attending or facilitating workshops, training, lectures as part of work;? Travelling home after 7.30pm;? Attending work related meetings where travel by public transport is not convenient;? To transport equipment for work purposes.Employees are not expected to carry heavy boxes or equipment on public transport to either get to a venue or to reach a venue from home.Private VehiclesPrivate vehicle mileage will be recorded from leaving VCOSS to the required destination, and will be reimbursed in accordance with the appropriate rates issued by the Australian Taxation Office from time to time.  To qualify for such reimbursement, travel must be in accordance with the employee's role as listed in their position description.  Private vehicles must carry a compulsory Third Party and Property insurance and the driver must be appropriately licensed.VCOSS is not responsible for damage incurred (or insurance excess) to an employee's car in the course of their duties.  VCOSS therefore encourages the employee to acquire Comprehensive Insurance for their car if used for work purposes.Employees are responsible for payment of any fines for speeding, parking or other traffic offences.Hire CarsFor any journey over 200km, employees are required to use hire cars in preference to personal vehicles, as this is the most cost effective option.  Specific permission for use of private vehicles for trips over 200kms is required from the relevant manager.When using hire cars, VCOSS will cover the cost of additional insurance on the car to limit personal liability to the minimum.  It is important for employees to ensure they are covered for the minimum excess, and for all damage to the vehicle including broken windscreens and damage to tyres, headlights etc.  VCOSS is not liable for any damage to the vehicle.Interstate TravelEmployees will use economy air travel when travelling interstate.  Bookings are to be coordinated through the relevant manager with all interstate travel to be endorsed by the CEO prior to booking.12.5 AccommodationVCOSS will cover the cost for any reasonable accommodation expenses, incurred for work related purposes outside the Melbourne metropolitan area.  Accommodation costs must be authorised by the relevant manager.  There is a requirement to contain costs within reason.Employees will be entitled to their own room when required to stay away overnight.13 Training and DevelopmentVCOSS recognises that in order to increase efficiency and productivity and to enhance work satisfaction and career development, a commitment to training and skill development is necessary.  Accordingly, the organisation commits to provide employees with access to mutually agreed training opportunities, and paid leave will be granted to employees for the purpose of pursuing training opportunities.  An amount at least equal to 1.5% of the total salary budget will be available for this purpose and spent according to organisational planning arrangements.Refer to the Training and Professional Development Policy for further information.14 Workplace Representation and Consultation14.1 Employee RepresentativesAs part of its commitment to regular consultation and communication with all staff, employee representatives will be elected or nominated by employees to represent their interests in organisational processes.  Employee representatives include staff representatives on committees referred to in this agreement, such as the Joint Consultative Committee, Occupational Health and Safety Committee or other committees or bodies as deemed operationally appropriate. 14.2 Time allowancesAll employee representatives shall be entitled to devote reasonable time to attend to representation issues on the job in addition to committee responsibilities (which include preparing for and attending committee meetings, and any tasks undertaken for the committee).  The Management Team will determine what constitutes 'reasonable time', if required, on a case-by-case basis.  Time allowances are not adjusted pro rata for part-time employees in employee representative roles.14.3 TrainingAll employee representatives shall be entitled to paid training leave as necessary for their particular role.  Training leave entitlements are not adjusted pro rata for part-time employees in employee representative roles.15 Occupational Health and SafetyVCOSS is responsible for providing a working environment where it is safe to work, where employees are free from harassment, and where employees are assured of appropriate workplace support in the event of a workplace incident.15.1 Occupational Health and Safety (OHS)VCOSS recognises its obligation, under the Occupation Health and Safety Act 2004, and will act in accordance with Section 21 to take all reasonable precautions to provide and maintain, so far as is practicable, an environment that is safe and without risks to health for employees, volunteers and visitors.VCOSS will:? Establish and maintain an OHS management system that facilitates a structured approach to the management of OHS risk.? Provide adequate human, financial and time resources to ensure the effectiveness and sustainability of the system.? Keep up-to-date with relevant health and safety legislative obligations. Achieve and maintain compliance with these obligations.? Promote a safety culture that encourages people to proactively manage health and safety risk through education, instruction, information and supervision.? Clearly define and communicate with employees, volunteers and visitors, responsibilities in relation to health and safety.? Proactively identify and manage health and safety risk via a documented hazard identification, risk assessment, risk control and monitoring process.? Maintain and improve, where appropriate, processes that ensure that incidents and hazards are promptly reported, investigated where appropriate, and control measures are put in place to eliminate or minimise the chance of a repeat event. ? Maintain building infrastructure, plant and equipment in a safe condition with documented safe systems of work.? Routinely monitor and review OHS performance to achieve continual improvement.15.2 Employee OHS responsibilities:Under Section 25 of the Occupational Health and Safety Act 2004, while at work, an employee must:? take reasonable care for his or her own health and safety; and? take reasonable care for the health and safety of persons who may  be affected by the employee's acts or omissions at a workplace; and? cooperate with his or her employer with respect to any action taken by the employer to comply with a requirement imposed under the Act or regulations15.3 OHS Consultation VCOSS is committed to encouraging consultation and co-operation between management and employees.  For this purpose, it has established an Occupational Health and Safety Committee (the OHS Committee) which in turn encourages the election of employee health and safety representatives who are consulted and involved in any workplace changes which could affect health and safety.The OHS Committee will consist of (at least) the elected health and safety representative/s and a VCOSS management representative, with a minimum of half the committee consisting of non-management employees.  The OHS Committee will meet at least once every 3 months and will operate in accordance with the Occupational Health and Safety Act 2004.15.4 OHS TrainingVCOSS will provide training to all staff on OHS matters:? during induction, including fire safety and evacuation? on an ongoing basis, such as fire drills, and? as issues arise, including when implementing and reviewing OHS systems. VCOSS will, in accordance with clause 14.3 Training, provide access to approved training to nominated staff representatives with additional safety duties, which include, but are not limited to:? Occupational Health and Safety Representatives? First Aid Officers? Fire Wardens15.5 Workplace Incidents and InjuryVCOSS keeps a register of incidents and injuries.  All employees are required to report any incident and injury to their manager in the first instance and record the incident, in detail, in the 'OHS Incidents and Near Misses Report'.  This report should include name of staff member, type of incident, nature of injury if applicable, date, time, place where incident occurred, and the name of the relevant manager notified.  The responsibility is then with the relevant manager to report the injury to the Occupational Health and Safety representative/s and Human Resources staff who will ensure an investigation is carried out and appropriate action taken.  This may include ensuring that the staff member has been seen by a health practitioner and ongoing support and assessment is in place.VCOSS agrees to provide relevant rehabilitation to employees who have suffered an injury or illness that is work-related.  VCOSS shall investigate the possibility of providing alternative duties to assist in the rehabilitation process in consultation with the rehabilitation provider.15.6 Harassment and BullyingHarassment and bullying are unacceptable behaviours that will not be tolerated at VCOSS under any circumstances.  VCOSS believes that all people have the right to work in an environment that is free of harassment and bullying.  VCOSS is committed to preventing all forms of harassment and bullying and redressing an issue where it has occurred.The relevant manager is required to ensure that all employees are treated fairly and equitably and are not subject to harassment and bullying.  VCOSS will also ensure that complainants and witnesses are not victimised in any way.Any reports of harassment or bullying will be treated seriously by VCOSS, and will be investigated thoroughly and confidentially.  Disciplinary action will be taken against anyone found to be guilty of harassing or bullying employees, volunteers or visitors.In the instance that a staff member believes they are subjected to harassment or bullying, they should implement the grievance procedure as outline in clause 16.1. of this agreement, and, where necessary, disciplinary action will be taken in accordance with clause 16.2.16 Dispute ResolutionAn employee who has a grievance arising out of his/her employment shall have the right for the grievance to be heard through each level of management.  Similarly, where a conflict arises between two (2) employees, both employees have the right to resolve the conflict in a considerate and timely manner.  VCOSS will make every effort to attempt to assist the employees resolving the conflict, without prejudice.16.1 Dispute Resolution and Grievance ProcedureThe grievance procedure is to be used when raising an issue of concern with another employee or the CEO where it directly affects the work practices of another employee, in relation to a matter raised in this agreement or any other matter causing a dispute between parties.  This process can also be used to try to resolve personal conflict between two (2) staff members. It is not to be used as a disciplinary procedure - the correct process for a disciplinary procedure is outlined elsewhere in this agreement and when necessary will be adhered to.It is expected that all parties involved in the process will attempt to keep the details of any conflict and the steps to resolve it confidential, however staff may seek support through JCC staff representatives, as required.1. In the first instance, the employee shall attempt to resolve the grievance with the other party concerned.  The employee will, in the first instance, approach the staff member they have an issue with and raise the matter directly with them.  This step may take the form of one informal meeting, or it may be a series of meetings as agreed by both parties.2. In situations where it is clear that the employees are unable to rectify the situation without the input of a third party, staff may seek support from their relevant manager.  In the case where the complaint is with the CEO, the staff member may seek support of the President of the Board. At this stage the relevant manager will assist in developing agreed strategies for staff members to work on with an ongoing support or review process.  Either party may be represented by an employee or employer representatives and/or the Joint Consultative Committee.3. If the employee still feels aggrieved, he/she shall inform the CEO, or President of the Board if appropriate,  who shall consult with the parties.  An employee representative or JCC may be present at the request of either party.4. If after all reasonable steps have been taken in an endeavour to resolve the grievance, as detailed above, and the grievance remains unresolved, then the employee representative shall be advised in writing and a meeting arranged with employer representative and the employee representative.5. If the grievance still exists the matter may be referred to an appropriate body, e.g. Australian Industrial Relations Commission or another mutually acceptable person or body for mediation, conciliation or arbitration.  The result of this process shall be accepted as final by both parties.6. Steps 1 to 4 shall take place within ten (10) working days.7. Employees may seek mediation from steps 2 to 4 if mutually agreed upon.8. At any point during this procedure an employee shall have the right to seek advice and support from their representative and/or VCOSS JCC.9. Until the grievance is determined, work shall continue normally in accordance with the custom and practice existing before the grievance while discussions take place, as long as this is mutually agreed upon by the parties involved.  Health and safety matters are exempted from this clause.10. No party shall be prejudiced as to the final settlement by the continuation of work.11. All employees shall be handed a copy of these procedures on commencement of employment.16.2 Disciplinary ProcedureThe disciplinary procedure is used to address ongoing performance related issues that arise that have not been resolved through regular feedback or the Performance Development and Management Program.  The disciplinary procedure shall be fair and negotiable.  Discussion between management and staff is encouraged.It is important to note that employees have the right to look at their personnel files and to make copies of documents held therein. Procedure of Disciplinary ActionFirst Warning1. The employee in question is told by their manager as soon as possible of any complaint concerning the performance of their work.2. Complaints must be specific in nature, citing specific examples, including times and dates relating to the complaint.  The complaint must relate to the employee's job performance or other behaviour, as outlined in their position description, OR result from a grievance procedure whereby an employee is found to be guilty of harassment as outlined in clause 15.6 Harassment and Bullying (e.g. not "s/he doesn't get along with the team" - this is a grievance).3. The complaint is to be discussed with the employee and the relevant manager (as the employer representative), who will mutually determine a strategy to improve/eliminate the behaviour in question.  The staff member is entitled to have an employee representative or another 'support' person present at the discussion.4. The warning is recorded on file.5. The employee shall be given the opportunity to sign the entry and be given a copy of the entry.  If the employee declined to sign the entry, the record will be endorsed to that effect by management and the employee may add comments.Second Warning1. If the problem continues or occurs again after the verbal warning, the employee may be given written notice of the complaint/s against them.  Again the complaints must cite further specific examples, including times and dates.2. The matter is then reported to the CEO. At all times confidentiality should be maintained to minimise loss of confidence and respect.  A representative of VCOSS management will then meet with the staff member.  The staff member then has the opportunity to discuss the complaints made against them.  The staff member is entitled to be represented by an employee representative of their choice.3. The aim of the meeting is to result in a change in the inappropriate behaviour but if this is not possible the two (2) parties should negotiate how the situation may be improved.  A trial period is set during which certain changes should occur.  A date is then set to review the agreed changes.4. A review takes place after this trial period.  A written record of this meeting should be placed on the staff member's file.5. After this the dispute may be resolved and there may be no need for further action.6. The employee shall be given the opportunity to sign the entry and be given a copy of the entry.  If the employee declines to sign the entry, the record will be endorsed to that effect by management.Final Written Warning1. If the problem persists, another meeting is called by the CEO and the employee is given notice to attend.2. The employee has the right of reply to discuss the situation.  They are also entitled to have an employee representative of their choice attend the meeting.3. The matter is discussed and further action may be considered.  Both parties need to negotiate what this action might be and the employee is given written notice (a final written warning).  Again an accurate record of this meeting should be placed on file. 4. The employee shall be given the opportunity to sign the entry and be given a copy of this entry.  If the employee declines to sign the entry, the record will be endorsed to that effect by management.5. If this meeting resolves the dispute there is no need for further action.If the problem still continues after these three (3) warnings, the staff member will be required to attend a further meeting at which a decision regarding their future employment will be made.  The employee may be dismissed after three (3) warnings have been given.  If dismissed, the staff member will be given notice (four (4) weeks pay in lieu of notice).Whilst at any stage, either party may refer the matter to the Australian Industrial Relations Commission, VCOSS strongly recommends that both parties make reasonable attempts to resolve the issue/s using the above process.  Management may also consider alternatives like a formal "dispute resolution meeting" to further attempt to resolve the problem before deciding on termination.16.3 Industrial RelationsVCOSS is committed to:? Developing and maintaining constructive on-going interaction between VCOSS, employees and the employee industrial representative organisation party to this agreement.? Agreed objectives for the organisation.? Respecting the rights of employees to engage in Union activities.? Effective prevention and settlement of industrial disputes.? Regular consultation and communication, and the establishment of an appropriate forum for such consultation between VCOSS, its employees and the employee industrial representative organisation party to this agreement.Right of EntryA properly accredited official or officer of the Australian Services Union or other relevant Union shall have rights of access to enter VCOSS for the purpose of ensuring compliance with the award and for disagreements or other matters relating to the relationship between VCOSS and its employees.Workplace Representative TrainingEach employee nominated as an employee representative shall be entitled to devote reasonable time to attend to staff representation issues on the job, in addition to any committee involvement.  All workplace representatives shall be entitled to paid training leave.  All OHS representatives shall be entitled to five (5) days per year training leave.  The costs of this will be attributed to the core of the organisation, not any particular service or business unit.  Part timers shall get full entitlements. 17 Termination of Employment17.1 ResignationAn employee wishing to terminate their employment shall do so by providing four weeks notice in writing.  The employee may negotiate with their manager to alter the notice period after the resignation has been submitted.Upon resignation, an employee shall be entitled to payment in lieu of any accrued annual leave (including pro rata loading as stipulated in clause 10.2 Annual Leave), time in lieu (in accordance with clause 9.6 Time in Lieu - Overtime) and pro rata long service leave (if entitled to take long service leave as stipulated in clause 10.8). 	17.2 DismissalTermination of employment by VCOSS will not be harsh, unjust or unreasonable having regard to all circumstances.  An employee will not be dismissed without regard to the Disciplinary Procedure as outlined in clause 16.2.  An employee dismissed under this clause, will be entitled to receive four (4) weeks pay in lieu of notice.Instant DismissalVCOSS is committed to constructive relationships with employees, however, should circumstances constituting serious misconduct arise, instant dismissal may be the most appropriate course of action. Serious misconduct includes the following:? Wilful misconduct, that is serious in nature and that compromises the organisation;? Dishonesty of the employee in relation to the employment;? Commission of a crime in the course of employment;? Commission of a crime outside the course of employment which is relevant to the duties of the employee and compromises the organisation;? Neglect of duty which happens on a regular basis and is of serious nature; and? Abandonment of employment.An employee that is instantly dismissed shall not be entitled to payment in lieu of notice.17.3 RedundancyThis clause applies to all employees covered by this agreement except casual staff.Redundancy occurs where VCOSS has made a definite decision that it no longer wishes the job the employee has been doing done by anyone and that decision leads to the termination of employment of the employee.This includes an employee on a fixed term contract whose employment is terminated before the agreed contract end date or whose continued employment is dependent upon recurrent Government or other funding as per clause 11B.8.2 in the SACS Award.  A demonstrated intention by VCOSS to seek funding to continue the employment of such an employee is evidence that VCOSS considers their employment to be dependent upon recurrent Government or other funding.  Such an employee will be notified in writing no less than three (3) months prior to the end of their contract whether VCOSS intends to seek funding to continue their employment and therefore whether they are entitled to severance pay if such funding is not received in accordance with the table below.In such a case, the relevant manager has a responsibility to inform staff members that the position is redundant and to investigate avenues to redeploy.  If redeployment is not possible, the Award provisions will apply (Termination of employment and Redundancy).  An employee should be notified of the redundancy as soon as possible, but not less than four (4) weeks prior to the redundancy becoming effective.Job VacanciesAny employee made redundant will not be considered an Internal Employee as defined in clause 6.11.Severance PayIn addition to the period of notice required for termination, as outlined below, and any leave entitlements owing (including any accrued annual leave, time in lieu and pro rata long service leave), employees who have completed at least 26 weeks continuous employment and who are made redundant are entitled to severance pay in accordance with the table below.Employees on fixed term contracts who have completed at least two (2) years of continuous service, within the meaning of clause 8.11 Continuity of Service, are also entitled to severance pay in accordance with the table below.  Period of continuous serviceSeverance pay26 to 52 weeks2 weeksMore than 52 weeks and up to 2 years4 weeksMore than 2 years and up to 3 years6 weeksMore than 3 years and up to 4 years7 weeksMore than 4 years and up to 5 years8 weeksMore than 5 years and up to 6 years10 weeksMore than 6 years and up to 7 years11weeksMore than 7 years and up to 8 years13 weeksMore than 8 years and up to 9 years14 weeksMore than 9 years16 weeksA week of severance pay means the ordinary pay for the employee concerned.An employee aged over 45 years will be given an additional week of severance pay in accordance with the SACS Award.Time Off During Notice PeriodDuring the period of notice of termination given by VCOSS, an employee shall be entitled to one day's time off without loss of pay during each week of notice for the purposes of seeking other employment.17.4 Outgoing EmployeesExit InterviewsAll outgoing employees are entitled to request an interview at the time of resignation or redundancy, with any one or a combination of the following:? Relevant manager? CEO? Member of the Joint Consultative Committee? Human Resources staff member.The relevant manager is responsible for informing outgoing employees of this entitlement at the time of resignation or redundancy.ReferencesAll employees, paid and unpaid, who have been in the employ of VCOSS for a minimum period of three (3) months will be entitled, upon request, to receive a letter of reference written by their manager or CEO.  All references must include the dates of the period of employment and position title.Acceptance of Agreement18 
APPENDICESAPPENDIX 1: CLASSIFICATION STRUCTUREVCOSS shall classify staff in accordance with the classification levels and the level descriptions as set out below. LEVEL 1Skills, Knowledge, and ExperienceThe knowledge and skills required to perform the role at this level will include:? Developing knowledge of work practices and policies of the relevant work area? Sound numeracy, written and verbal communication skills.? Knowledge of equipment and tools to perform routine tasks and procedures, and developing practical application of these skills.? Acquires and applies proficiency in standard office equipment and computer applications.? Sound communication skills and interpersonal skills in dealing with the public and internal stakeholders.Qualifications At this level no formal qualification is required but an appropriate certificate relevant to the work performance is desirable OR relevant experience in a relevant functions or work area. It is also desirable that the employee is studying for an appropriate certificate or undertaking internal or external training relevant to the work area.AccountabilityAn employee at this level is expected to:? Work under close /direct supervision and undertakes specific and defined tasks within established rules. ? Refer deviation from procedures or unfamiliar situations to higher levels.? Apply established practices and procedures & the work is regularly checked.? May be required to assist the work of volunteers and interns in the work area.Innovation and Originality An employee at this level:? Focuses on maintaining existing systems and processes.? Identifies opportunities to improve own efficiency and suggests these to supervisorJudgementAn employee at this level is expected to:? Work under close /direct supervision to undertake clearly defined routine activities that require the practical application of basic skills and techniques.? Perform clearly defined activities with outcomes being readily attainable.? Influences own daily work priorities and schedules under direction of supervisor.? Complete tasks and activities according to instructions and established procedures.Relationship Management An employee at this level:? Works under close or routine supervision moving to direct or general direction with experience.? Has autonomy to arrange work provided there is no change to defined work practices.? May supervise interns or volunteers in a distinct work area? Has good communication and interpersonal skills in communicating internally and with the public and the membership.
LEVEL 2Knowledge, Skills and Experience The knowledge and skills required to perform the role at this level will include:? Sound knowledge of work practices and policies of the relevant work area. ? Sound numeracy, written and verbal communication skills. ? Sound knowledge of equipment and tools to perform standard tasks and procedures.? Proficiency applied in standard office equipment and computer applications? Good problem solving and organisation skills.? Good communication skills and interpersonal skills in dealing with the public and internal stakeholders.QualificationsAt this level the minimum qualification required is a relevant Associate Diploma with experienceOR relevant experience in a relevant discipline, function or work area. AccountabilityAn employee at this level is expected to:? Work under the direct /general direction of a more senior employee.? May be responsible for a minor function and/or support the work of more senior employees.? Be responsible for managing time, planning and organising their own work.? May make limited changes to their own work program, which may impact on the operations of the work area.? May be required to assist the work of volunteers and interns in the work area.? May be required to have a sound knowledge of program, activity, operational policy or service aspects of the work performed within a function or a number of work areas.? May provide reports & recommendations on the progress of program activities within specified areas.Innovation And Originality An employee at this level:? Uses judgement to solve problems arising in own work program.? Takes initiative to recommend improved processes in immediate work areaJudgementAn employee at this level is expected to:? Work under the direct /general direction of a more senior employee in applying rules, processes and standards under direct supervision to achieve defined outcomes in a variety of work situations.? Undertake a range of activities requiring application of established work practices within clearly established guidelines? Plan and prioritise own work program to achieve defined targets set by supervisor.? Contribute to operational service delivery with scope to exercise initiative in applying work practices and procedures but assistance will be readily available where required.Relationship ManagementAt this level the employee:? Works under direct to general supervision with experience.? Plans and prioritises own work program to achieve defined targets set by supervisor? Contributes to operational service delivery with scope to exercise initiative in applying work practices and procedures but assistance will be readily available where required.? May supervise interns or volunteers in a distinct work area.? Good communication and interpersonal skills in communicating internally and with the public and the membership.
LEVEL 3Skills, Knowledge, And ExperienceThe knowledge and skills required to perform the role at this level will include:? Sound knowledge of program area, work practices and policies of the relevant work area. ? Sound numeracy, written and verbal communication skills.? Sound knowledge of equipment and tools to perform standard tasks and procedures.? Proficiency applied in standard office equipment and computer applications. ? Well developed analytical and organisational skills.? Detailed knowledge in a relevant discipline gained through previous experience, training or education.? Specialists require a comprehensive understanding of the particular discipline, experience and capacity to apply the skills to support the activities and functions of the organisation in program area.? Good communication skills and interpersonal skills in dealing with the public and internal stakeholders.QualificationAt this level the minimum qualification required would be a relevant three or four year degree OR a relevant associate diploma with substantial experience OR relevant experience to undertake the range of activities involved.AccountabilityAn employee at this level is expected to:? Work under general direction in functions that require the application of skills, knowledge and experience of a more complex or specialist nature.? Will generally be responsible for the performance of a project, policy development, campaign or a more complex administrative or executive support role.?  Will be expected to take responsibility for the quality of their own work and the achievement of work objectives within clearly defined work objectives and procedures.? May be required to supervise the work of employees of a lower classification level engaged in the discrete work area.? Will be required to deliver a program, activity, operational policy or service within a function or a number of work areas.? May deliver a specialist service or function supporting the work of the organisation within prescribed areas.? Will provide reports & recommendations on the progress of program activities within specified areas.Innovation & OriginalityAn employee at this level:? Use judgement to solve problems arising in own work program.? Creatively deal with problems within the work area.JudgementAn employee at this level is expected to:? Work under general direction of more senior employees exercising judgement and initiative where procedures are not clearly defined and to achieve work objectives.? Carry out, plan, or undertake research for, particular projects including aspects of design, formulation of policy, implementation of procedures and presentation. This may mean exercising specialised judgement within prescribed areas.? Plan and prioritises own work program to achieve defined targets with responsibility for keeping senior employees informed of progress of work.? Under the direction of a more senior employee undertake responsibility for the development or implementation of a project, or work area or program.? Provide a high level of expertise within the specific area of responsibility internally to the organisation.Relationship ManagementAt this level the employee:? Works under general direction and responsible for areas of work involving discretion and individual judgement.? Plans and prioritises own work program to achieve program objectives. ? Is responsible for areas of work program/s under general direction.? May supervise staff at lower levels (and volunteers) and co-ordinate work in a distinct work area.? Utilises strong communication skills and a high level of interpersonal skills in communicating internally, with the public, government and other organisations.
LEVEL 4Skills, Knowledge, And ExperienceThe knowledge and skills required to perform the role at this level will include:? Detailed knowledge of program activities and work practices relevant to the work area as well as strong policy analysis and research skills.? Excellent numeracy, written and verbal communication skills.? Sound knowledge of equipment and tools to perform standard tasks and procedures. ? Proficiency applied in standard office equipment and computer applications.? Strong analytical and organisational skills. ? Comprehensive knowledge of the relevant specialist discipline, gained through experience, education, or training. ? Specialists require a comprehensive understanding of the particular discipline, experience and capacity to apply the skills to support the activities and functions of the organisation in program area/s.? Strong communication and advocacy skills are required at this level and a high level of interpersonal skills in dealing with the public, and internal and external stakeholders at peer level.? Ability to co-ordinate a team of workers and motivate and support them.? Ability to exercise sound judgement in relation to complex issues.? Strong policy analysis and research skills, where relevant.QualificationAt this level the minimum qualification required would be a relevant three or four year degree with substantial experience OR a relevant postgraduate qualification OR substantial relevant experience to undertake the range of activities involved.AccountabilityAn employee at this level is expected to:? Work under broad direction from senior management and exercises a high level of autonomy in the methods used to achieve program objectives.? Will co-ordinate the activities of a discreet work area, significant projects and/or functions involving complex analysis, research and the use of analytical skills.? Will deliver a specialist service or function supporting the work of the organisation, in a specialist discipline or program. This may include specific responsibility for the maintenance and development of financial and administrative systems.? Will have supervisory responsibility for the work of employees engaged in the discrete work area.? Will be required to deliver a program, activity, operational policy or service within a function or a number of work areas? Will deliver a specialist service or function supporting the work of the organisation.? Will provide reports & recommendations on the progress of program activitiesInnovation And Originality An employee at this level:? Assesses and responds to policy and process changes in the work area.? Creatively deals with problems within the work area.JudgementAn employee at this level is expected to:? Work under broad direction from senior management, coordinating a discrete work area or a range of functions.? Carry out, plan, or undertake  research for, particular projects including aspects of design, formulation of policy, implementation of procedures and presentation. This may mean exercising specialised judgement within a program or discipline area.? Set, within broad guidelines, procedures and work practices for the discrete work area and may direct the work of other employees engaged in that area. ? Provide a high level of expertise to the organisation and may be required to represent the organisation internally and externally within their area of expertise or work function at a peer level.? Exercise sound judgement and apply complex concepts to policy development, research area or specialist area.Relationship Management An employee at this level:? Works under broad direction and manages significant projects and/or functions. ? Plans and prioritises own work program and co-ordinates projects and/or functions. ? Responsible for areas of work involving a high degree of discretion and judgement.? Will have supervisory responsibility for staff engaged in the work area.? Strong communication skills and a high level of interpersonal skills in dealing with the public, government, and other organisations at the level of internal and external peers.
LEVEL 5Skills, Knowledge, And ExperienceThe knowledge and skills required to perform the role at this level will include:? Comprehensive knowledge of policies and procedures and program activities of the organisation as well as strong policy analysis and research skills. ? A high level of verbal and written communication skills, including the capacity to discuss and explain complex issues and ideas. ? Sound knowledge of equipment and tools to perform standard tasks and procedures.? Proficiency applied in standard office equipment and computer applications.? Strong managerial and strategic planning skills.? Application of a high level of discipline knowledge.? Specialists require a high level  understanding of the particular discipline, experience and the capacity to apply the skills to support the strategic objectives of the organisation.? Strong communication and advocacy skills are required at this level and a high level of interpersonal skills in dealing with the public, internal and external stakeholders.? Leadership abilities in the management of staff and programs.? Ability to exercise high level judgement in relation to complex issues.? High level policy analysis and research skills, where relevant.QualificationAt this level the minimum qualification required would be a relevant three or four year degree with extensive experience OR a relevant post graduate qualifications in a specialist field and extensive relevant experience OR substantial relevant experience obtained through previous appointments, study, and a combination of experience, expertise and competence to perform the duties at this level.AccountabilityAn employee at this level is expected to:? Works under limited direction of the Chief Executive Officer. Exercises a high level of autonomy in managing a major area or program.? Undertakes the control and coordination of key aspects of the work of the organisation including managing a program area or range of work areas.? Provides authoritative specialist advice and contributes to the development and review of policies & practices, both internal and external, including critical evaluation of government policy.? Manages staff and contributes to and participates in the senior management team.? Exercises managerial control, involving planning, direction, control and evaluation of operations which include providing analysis and interpretation for either a major single discipline or multidiscipline operation.? Employees will have significant impact upon policies and projects and will be required to provide initiative and to formulate, implement, monitor and evaluate projects and work programs. ? Exercises substantial delegated authority and will deputise for the Chief Executive Officer from time to time. Innovation & OriginalityAn employee at this level:? Assesses and responds to policy and process changes in the work area.? Innovative thinking is an inherent feature of the job.Judgement An employee at this level is expected to:? Work with a high level of autonomy and subject to only limited direction from the CEO.? Be accountable for achievement of established organisational objectives including the formulation and implementation of business plans.? Participate in strategic planning and contribute at a high level to strategic decision making process. ? Provide high level advice and analysis which influences policy development and required to represent the organisation internally and externally. ? Exercise strong strategic judgement for the organisation or a major operational area.Relationship ManagementAn employee at this level:? Works with a high level of autonomy and is subject to limited direction. Supervised by, and reports to, the Chief Executive Officer.? Provides initiative and formulates, implements, monitors and evaluates projects and work programs.? Responsible for areas of work involving a high degree of discretion and judgement and has a significant impact on the policies and projects of the organisation.? Exercises leadership in the management of staff and/or program areas.? Excellent communication skills and a high level of interpersonal skills in communicating with the highest managerial levels internally, across the sector and with government.? Manages significant projects and/or functions with significant impact upon policies and projects of the organisation.
APPENDIX 2: SALARY STRUCTURESalary StructureEffective 1 July 2009 - 30 June 2010 Indexation rate = 3.25%  (based on Full Time Employment)Level 1Level 2Level 3Level 4Level 5Gross SalaryHourly rateGross SalaryHourly rateGross SalaryHourly rateGross SalaryHourly rateGross SalaryHourly rate$42,468$21.78$43,952$22.54$45,492$23.33$47,083$24.15$48,731$24.99$48,731$24.99$50,438$25.87$50,438$25.87$52,202$26.77$54,030$27.71$55,921$28.68$55,921$28.68$57,878$29.68$59,955$30.75$62,001$31.80$64,169$32.91$64,169$32.91$66,413$34.06$68,798$35.28$71,204$36.51$73,698$37.79$73,698$37.79$76,277$39.12$78,945$40.48$81,708$41.90$84,566$43.37$87,526$44.89$90,589$46.46The annual gross salary is converted to an hourly rate in accordance with the following calculation:Gross salary divided by number of weeks in the year divided by number of full time hours worked per week.  The resultant number will be rounded to two decimal places. Example: $42,468/52/37.5 = $21.78
APPENDIX 3: MEAL ALLOWANCE RATESAustralian Taxation Office Taxation Determination 2007/21Breakfast $20.20Lunch $22.65Dinner $38.95Rates current as at 29 April 2009.
11