RUGBY LEAGUE PLAYERS (NRL) 
COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT 2006 - 2010

PART 1 - APPLICATION AND OPERATION OF AGREEMENT
1. TITLE
This Agreement shall be known as the Rugby League Players (NRL) Collective Agreement 2006 - 2010.
2. ARRANGEMENT
PART 1 - APPLICATION AND OPERATION OF AGREEMENT	1
1.	TITLE	1
2.	ARRANGEMENT	1
3.	DEFINITIONS	2
4.	SCOPE, APPLICATION AND PARTIES BOUND	4
5.	RELATIONSHIP OF AGREEMENT WITH OTHER INDUSTRIAL INSTRUMENTS	5
6.	COMMENCEMENT DATE OF AGREEMENT AND PERIOD OF OPERATION	5
PART 2 - DISPUTE RESOLUTION	5
7.	DISPUTE SETTLING PROCEDURE	5
PART 3 - WAGES AND RELATED MATTERS	7
8.	MINIMUM WAGE	7
9.	SALARY CAP	9
10.	TOP SIX PLAYERS	9
11.	SUPERANNUATION	10
PART 4 - OTHER BENEFITS	10
12.	HOSPITAL AND MEDICAL BENEFITS INSURANCE & INJURY REMEDIATION	10
13.	TICKETS AND CAR PARKING FOR PLAYERS	11
14.	TRAVEL AND ACCOMMODATION	11
15.	EDUCATION AND WELFARE	12
PART 5 - LEAVE	12
16.	PLAYER LEAVE ENTITLEMENTS	12
PART 6 - MISCELLANEOUS	14
17.	OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY	14
18.	GAME DEVELOPMENT	14
19.	COMPULSORY AGENT ACCREDITATION	14
PART 7 - AGREEMENT MATTERS	15
20.	NO SUIT	15
21.	NO EXTRA CLAIMS	15
SCHEDULE 1	25

3. DEFINITIONS
      In this Agreement:
      'Act' means Workplace Relations Act 1996.
'ACP Rules' means the NRL Appeals Committee Procedural Rules as amended from time to time.
'Agent' means any person or entity who acts, or purports to act, on behalf of a Player and includes a Player's manager, representative or adviser. 
'Agent Accreditation Scheme' means any accreditation scheme in respect of player agents implemented by the NRL and the NRL Clubs from time to time. 
      'ARL' means the Australian Rugby Football League (ACN 003 107 293).
'ARL Development' means Australian Rugby League Development (ABN 73 089 809 745).
      'Award' means the Australian Rugby League Players Award 2000.
'Minimum Remuneration Package' has the meaning given to it in clause 8.1 of this Agreement.  
      'NRL' means National Rugby League Limited.
'NRL Appeals Committee' means the body constituted by the NRL Appeals Committee Procedural Rules, from time to time. 
      'NRL Club' means any of the clubs named as parties to this Agreement in clause 4.1.
'NRL Competition'  means the national rugby league competition arranged and administered by the NRL. 
'NRL Full Time Squad' for a particular NRL Club means all Players who are required by the First Grade Coach of the NRL Club to train in the full time squad of that NRL Club in preparation to play in an NRL Competition match 
'NRL Rules' means the rules adopted from time to time by the NRL governing the NRL Competition and any Related Competitions approved by the NRL.
'Party' means the Players and each of the NRL Clubs.
'PCR Rules' means the NRL Playing Contract and Remuneration Rules as amended from time to time.
'Player' means a player who has signed a Player Registration Application and is eligible to play in the NRL Competition.  
'Player Registration Application' means a document in the terms of Form 3 to the PCR Rules as amended from time to time.
'Playing Contract' has the meaning given to it in the NRL Rules, as amended by the NRL from time to time.
'Pre Reform Certified Agreement' means the Rugby League Players (NRL) Collective Bargaining Agreement 2004.
'Related Competitions' means matches conducted by, or with the authority of, the ARL or its affiliated state leagues and any rugby league competition, other than the NRL Competition, approved by the NRL.
      'RLPA' means the Rugby League Professionals Association.
'Salary Cap' has the meaning given to it in the NRL Rules, as amended by the NRL from time to time.  
'Season' means the period of each annual NRL Competition commencing on 1 November of one year and ending on 31 October of the next year, or such other period as may be from time to time determined by the NRL.
'Top 25 Player' means a Player who holds or held a Playing Contract with an NRL Club in respect of a Season and who is included in the NRL Club's Pre Season Statutory Declaration of its Top 25 Players for that Season. 
'Top Six Players' means the six Players with the highest Salary Cap value at each NRL Club as at Round one of the NRL Competition for the relevant Season.
'Total Club Salary Cap' has the meaning given to it by the NRL Rules, as amended by the NRL from time to time.  
4. SCOPE, APPLICATION AND PARTIES BOUND
4.1 This Agreement shall be binding upon: 
(a) Brisbane Broncos Rugby League Club Limited (ACN 010 769 025);
(b) Bulldogs Rugby League Club Limited (ACN 001 869 405);
(c) Cronulla-Sutherland District Rugby League Football Club Limited (ACN 002 692 186);
(d) Cowboys Rugby League Football Limited (ACN 060 382 961);
(e) Eastern Suburbs District Rugby League Football Club Limited (ACN 002 687 416);
(f) Melbourne Storm Rugby League Club Limited (ACN 081 369 468);
(g) Manly-Warringah Sea Eagles Limited (ACN 003 348 436);
(h) Newcastle Knights Limited (ACN 003 363 228);
(i) Penrith District Rugby League Football Club Limited (ACN 003 908 583);
(j) Parramatta National Rugby League Club Limited (ACN 092 536 519);
(k) South Sydney District Rugby League Football Club Limited (ACN 002 487 390);
(l) St George Illawarra Rugby League Football Club Pty Limited (ACN 085 008 340);
(m) The Canberra Raiders Pty Limited (ACN 068 819 152);
(n) Wests Tigers Rugby League Football Pty Limited (ACN 090 076 403); 
(o) Gold Coast NRL Pty Limited (ACN 115 246 878); and
(p) all Players employed by an NRL Club,
in respect of all Players employed by an NRL Club.
4.2 Unless expressly stated the provisions of this agreement shall apply to all Players employed by an NRL Club. 
5. RELATIONSHIP OF AGREEMENT WITH OTHER INDUSTRIAL INSTRUMENTS
This Agreement operates in place of and to the exclusion of any other collective industrial instrument (including the Award) as amended, replaced or superseded from time to time that might otherwise apply to the employment of Players.  
6. COMMENCEMENT DATE OF AGREEMENT AND PERIOD OF OPERATION
6.1 This Agreement commences on and from the date of lodgement with the Office of Employment Advocate ('Lodgement Date') and the nominal expiry date of the Agreement is 31 October 2010.
PART 2 - DISPUTE RESOLUTION
7. DISPUTE SETTLING PROCEDURE
7.1 In the event of any grievance between a Player and an NRL Club, the following procedure will be followed:
(a) the Player, or his duly appointed representative, shall first raise the grievance with the Football Manager of the NRL Club;
(b) if the matter is not resolved by the Player raising it with the Football Manager of the NRL Club, the Player may request that the grievance be referred to the Chief Executive Officer of the NRL Club concerned for further discussion with the Player and, at the Player's request, the RLPA, another duly appointed representative or both;
(c) if the matter is unable to be resolved at NRL Club level within 7 days, then the assistance of the NRL Chief Executive Officer (or his or her nominee) may be enlisted to assist the Player and the NRL Club to reach a resolution, for a further 7 day period.  The Player may request the assistance of the RLPA, another duly appointed representative, or both, in those discussions;
(d) if the matter is still not able to be resolved, the NRL Club and the Player concerned may agree to refer the matter to:
(i) the NRL Appeals Committee for determination, however, if the dispute relates to a disciplinary sanctions imposed by an NRL Club or the NRL on a Player, the Player does not require the agreement of the NRL Club concerned to refer the matter to the NRL Appeals Committee for its review of those sanctions pursuant to the ACP Rules and, in those circumstances, it is acknowledged that the Player is not required to lodge the security that would otherwise be required to be lodged for that review; or
(ii) an agreed third party for mediation.  If the parties are unable to agree, the President of the NRL Appeals Committee will appoint a mediator.  The mediation must be conducted in accordance with the terms of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, unless otherwise agreed between the parties.  
7.2 A Player who is a party to a grievance must, while the grievance is being resolved continue to work in accordance with his Playing Contract, unless the Player has a reasonable concern about an imminent risk to his health or safety.
PART 3 - WAGES AND RELATED MATTERS
8. MINIMUM WAGE
8.1 Players may be entitled to a minimum remuneration package in accordance with this clause which:
(a) may be comprised of sign on fees, playing fees, match fees, bonus payments or any other benefit as specifically identified in the special conditions section of the Player's Playing Contract or any variation to the Playing Contract; and
(b) is inclusive of all minimum entitlements, annual leave, annual leave loading, superannuation contributions, long service leave and fringe benefits tax, 
('Minimum Remuneration Package').
8.2 Each NRL Club must ensure that, during each Season:
(a) at least 17 of its Players receive a Minimum Remuneration Package of $55,000; and 
(b) a further 8 of its Players receive a Minimum Remuneration Package of $50,000,
(in total 'Top 25 Players') provided that this will be assessed at the end of the Season.  
Minimum Match Fee entitlement
8.3 A Player who is not a Top 25 Player will be entitled to a minimum payment of $2,000 for each NRL Competition match he participates in until his remuneration paid reaches $50,000 for a Season.  The Player will only be entitled to an additional payment of remuneration above $50,000 if he would be entitled to a greater total payment for the Season under the terms of his Playing Contract.
Trained with NRL Full Time Squad for More than Six Weeks 
8.4 Subject to subclause 8.5, if a Player, who is not a Top 25 Player, trains for a cumulative period of more than six weeks in the NRL Full Time Squad during the period from the first trial game to the Grand Final (but not for the full Season), (whether the Player plays in an NRL Competition match or not) the Player will be entitled to receive a Minimum Remuneration Package (excluding match fees) of at least $25,000 from the NRL Club for that Season.  
8.5 At least $10,000 of a Player's Minimum Remuneration Package required under subclause 8.4 must relate to education and/or traineeship payments ('Education Payment') which must be utilised on the following terms:
(a) education and/or traineeship courses must be approved by the NRL-RLPA Education & Welfare Committee;
(b) if a Player is not undertaking an education and/or traineeship course to the value of $10,000 in that Season, the Player will not be entitled to the full Education Payment unless:
(i) the Player is undertaking an educational and/or traineeship course which incurs an annual cost of less than $10,000 for that Season; and
(ii) the NRL Club and the NRL Educational & Welfare Committee agree to provide the balance of the Education Payment as a bonus to the Player for the successful completion of the course. 
For the sake of clarity, if the Player is not entitled to the full Education Payment by virtue of clause 8.5(b)(i) and (ii), the Minimum Remuneration Package (excluding match fees) payable to the Player under clause 8.4 (ie the $25,000) will be reduced by the 'balance' referred to in clause 8.5(b)(ii).

NRL Squad for Six Weeks or Less (other than Top 25)
8.6 If a Player, who is not a Top 25 Player, is training for a period of six weeks or less in the NRL Full Time Squad during a Season, the Player will be entitled to the greater of:
(a) a minimum payment of $300:
(i) per week for any week spent training in the NRL Full Time Squad or;
(ii) if the Player is selected as the eighteenth Player by an NRL Club to potentially play in an NRL Competition match, and on that basis is required to travel with the NRL Full Time Squad, regardless of whether the Player has trained in the NRL Full Time Squad for a full week,
provided that this amount is not in addition to any entitlement of the Player under his Playing Contract; and
(b) upon providing evidence from his other employer to his NRL Club that this requirement caused him a loss of wages, a payment from his NRL Club by way of reimbursement of those lost wages up to a maximum of $150 per day or part thereof.
8.7 For the purposes of clause 8, a Player is regarded as having trained with the NRL Club's NRL Full Time Squad for a 'week' if a Player has met the full time training requirements on more than two days in that calendar week. 
9. SALARY CAP
9.1 The NRL Clubs and the Players recognise the importance of a Salary Cap and acknowledge that the Salary Cap limits, in a reasonable way, the remuneration that may be paid by, or on behalf of, any one NRL Club to its Players.  
9.2 From the 2007 Season, each NRL Club must expend $3.5 million each Season in its Total Club Salary Cap.    
10. TOP SIX PLAYERS
10.1 Each NRL Club must:
(a) confidentially notify each Top Six Player that they are a Top Six Player; and
(b) keep the remuneration details of its Top Six Players and the fact that a Player is a Top Six Player confidential, except as required by law or the NRL Rules, and provided that nothing in this clause prevents either the NRL Club or the Player from disclosing the contents of this Agreement.  
10.2 Each Player at an NRL Club who is notified by an NRL Club that they are a Top Six Player for the purposes of this clause must also keep this information confidential.
11. SUPERANNUATION
11.1 The subject of superannuation is dealt with by legislation including the Superannuation Guarantee (Administration) Act 1988, the Superannuation Guarantee Charge Act 1992, the Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Act 1993 and the Superannuation (Resolution of Complaints) Act 1993.  The legislation as varied from time to time will govern the superannuation rights and obligations of the parties. 
11.2 A Player's Minimum Remuneration Package includes contributions made by his NRL Club on behalf of the Player into a superannuation fund as agreed between the NRL Club and the Player, or as otherwise nominated by the NRL Club. 
PART 4 - OTHER BENEFITS
12. HOSPITAL AND MEDICAL BENEFITS INSURANCE & INJURY REMEDIATION 
12.1 Each NRL Club shall arrange hospital and medical benefits insurance cover for each of its Players. The premium due by each Player for this insurance shall be deducted by the NRL Club from the remuneration that would otherwise be payable by that NRL Club to that Player, unless another arrangement has been agreed between the NRL Club and the Player. 
12.2 Where a Player has incurred an injury or injuries whilst playing in an NRL Competition match or training in the NRL training squad for his NRL Club and provided that:
(a) the injury or injuries have been identified prior to 31 October in the Player's final year of his Playing Contract; and 
(b) the NRL Club's Chief Medical Officer has assessed the injury or injuries and agreed to an injury treatment plan, 
the Player shall have a further period of twelve months to undergo that agreed treatment and the Player's NRL Club will be responsible for paying any Gap Amount in relation to the identified medical treatment during that twelve month period. In this clause 12.2, 'Gap Amount' means the amount between the actual medical costs incurred in implementing the agreed injury treatment plan and the amount which is or would be covered by the top-level medical insurance.

12.3 Where a Player receives medical treatment pursuant to clause 12.2 following the completion of his Playing Contract the Player must ensure that he personally maintains top-level medical insurance during the period of injury treatment and remediation.  If the Player fails to do so the Player's NRL Club will only be responsible for paying any Gap Amount.
12.4 If a Player commences playing or training for another rugby league team or undertakes any other endeavour which unreasonably increases the risk of further injury prior to the treatment and remediation being completed, the NRL Club's responsibilities in relation to the injury remediation will cease.
13. TICKETS AND CAR PARKING FOR PLAYERS
13.1 Each NRL Club will provide to each of its Players who participate in an NRL Competition match:
(a) two best available seats;
(b) two general admission tickets;
(c) a Player and Official Pass; and
(d) a car park pass for that NRL Competition Match, 
as available and appropriate, based on the circumstances of each NRL Club. 
13.2 NRL Clubs will use reasonable endeavours to secure the benefits set out in clause 13.1 above for Players at away NRL Competition matches.
14. TRAVEL AND ACCOMMODATION
14.1 Each NRL Club will pay for all reasonable travel and accommodation expenses incurred by a Player of that NRL Club in the authorised performance of his obligations under his Playing Contract, other than for day to day travel to and from the Player's regular training ground or other NRL Club functions. The NRL Club may require a Player to provide appropriate documentation in relation to travel or accommodation expenses before it reimburses the Player for the expenses. 
14.2 Where a Player has been injured at an away game involving air travel and the NRL Club's Medical Officer is of the opinion that special travel arrangements are necessary for the Player's comfort and/or recuperation, the Player's NRL Club agrees to use its best endeavours to liaise with the NRL travel agency and/or airline in an attempt to secure suitable return travel arrangements which may, depending on the type of injury, include the provision of seating with additional leg room (such as that afforded by seating fronting on to an exit or seating in the business class section) provided such seating is available on the flight on which the Player is scheduled to travel, with any additional cost being met by the Player's NRL Club.

15. EDUCATION AND WELFARE
15.1 Subject to clause 15.2, NRL Clubs must make available a minimum of $33,000 per annum in education and welfare benefits in respect of the NRL Club's Players in accordance with education and welfare guidelines determined by the NRL/RLPA Education and Welfare Committee, from time to time.  
15.2 In the case of hardship, the NRL/RLPA Education and Welfare Committee may, on application by an NRL Club, reduce the minimum amount of education and welfare benefits required to be made available by the NRL Club.
PART 5 - LEAVE
16. PLAYER LEAVE ENTITLEMENTS
16.1 A Player is entitled to take the following leave without loss of pay:
(a) five weeks' annual leave in each year of service;
(b) one week's long service leave in each year of service;
(c) personal/carer's leave, including sick, carer's and compassionate leave in accordance with the Act; and
(d) parental leave in accordance with the Act. 
16.2 A Player must use and must be given any annual leave and long service leave entitlement in a minimum period of leave from all training and playing obligations with his NRL Club:
(a) of six weeks commencing from: 
(i) the date of the last NRL Competition match or match in the NRL Finals Series contested by his NRL Club; or 
(ii) such later date as nominated by his NRL Club; or 
(b) in the case where the last match was contested overseas, a period of six weeks as agreed with his NRL Club provided that this leave is taken prior to the start of the next Season.
16.3 In addition to the leave in clause 16.2, a Player shall also be entitled to a period of leave commencing on 23 December and ceasing on 3 January of the following year.
16.4 A further period of leave may be provided to a Player by agreement with his NRL Club.  The period of such leave will be determined by reference to the Player's term of service in the NRL Club and representative commitments.
16.5 To the extent that a Player has an entitlement to leave under this Agreement, his Playing Contract, the Award, the Act or any other legislation, the Player is not entitled to be paid separately for any leave taken or accrued by the Player, on the basis that the Player's remuneration is inclusive of any entitlement to paid leave.
16.6 A Player's entitlement to leave will not accrue from year to year, other than in relation to personal/carer's leave as required by the Act.
16.7 Players are required in every case to first seek and obtain the approval of their NRL Club before taking any particular period of leave, such approval not to be unreasonably withheld.  In relation to any entitlement to annual leave or long service leave, the Player shall, subject to approval by their NRL Club, take such leave following the conclusion of the Player's NRL Club's participation in the NRL Competition in a particular Season. 
16.8 Where an NRL Club requires a Player to attend an official NRL Club event during the six week leave period in clause 16.2, the NRL Club is required to notify the Player of this obligation by the end of round 21 of the NRL Competition.
PART 6 - MISCELLANEOUS
17. OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY
17.1 The Players and the NRL Clubs agree to work co-operatively towards the identification of potential hazards to Players, consult as to appropriate measures to reduce the risk of harm to Players through those hazards and together implement those measures, so far as is it is reasonably practicable to do so.

18. GAME DEVELOPMENT
18.1 In addition to other normal NRL Club or NRL game development or promotion activities, as part of their obligations under their Players must participate in ARL Development events designed to promote the growth of the game at grass roots level.  
18.2 Players are required to participate in ARL Development events (for example a Qantaslink Clinic) for a period of at least three days per annum, unless otherwise agreed. The NRL Clubs agree to provide the Players with leave from NRL Club commitments in order to fulfil this commitment to game development events. 
18.3 Pre-approved travel and accommodation expenses will be met by the Player's NRL Club unless it is met by the NRL or ARL Development.
19. COMPULSORY AGENT ACCREDITATION 
19.1 Where a Player is represented by an Agent in the negotiation of a Playing Contract, that contract must not be lodged for registration with the NRL by the Player or his NRL Club unless the Agent was at the time of the negotiations properly accredited pursuant to the Agent Accreditation Scheme in place from time to time. 
PART 7 - AGREEMENT MATTERS
20. NO SUIT 
20.1 The Players agree that they will not sue or support, financially, administratively or otherwise, any suit against an NRL Club with respect to any claim relating to conduct by the NRL Club permitted by this Agreement or the current NRL Rules (including all Schedules and Guidelines to the NRL Rules).  For the avoidance of doubt, this clause does not prevent a Player from taking action for breach of this Agreement or from using the dispute settling procedure in this Agreement, nor does it prevent a Player from taking action against his NRL Club where the NRL Club is in breach of his Playing Contract.  
20.2 No party to this Agreement shall be entitled to take any industrial action during the term of this Agreement.  The Parties acknowledge that the terms of this Agreement are intended to cover the field of the Players' employment to the extent that they may be regulated by collective industrial instruments.  
21. NO EXTRA CLAIMS
21.1 The parties agree that this Agreement is intended to cover the field of the Players' employment to the extent that they are regulated by collective industrial instruments.
21.2 It is a term of this Agreement that the Players will not pursue any extra claims for improvement in wages or other terms and conditions of employment for the duration of this Agreement.
21.3 The parties agree that the wage increases and other improvements in conditions of employment provided for by this Agreement are in lieu of any improvements in wages or conditions of employment provided for under any decision or standard of the Australian Fair Pay Commission, the Australian Industrial Relations Commission or any other court, commission or tribunal handed down or issued prior to or during the life of this Agreement and no claim can be made for any such increase during or after the term of this Agreement.
21.4 The Players agree that they will not take protected action for the duration of this Agreement. 

EXECUTED as an Agreement

SIGNED             
on behalf of the Players
by their authorised representative/bargaining agent
))
)


Signature of authorised representative/ bargaining agent


Print name of authorised representative/ bargaining agent

_______________________________________
Address of authorised representative/
bargaining agent
In the presence of


Name of Witness (print)
)
)
)


Signature of Witness


Executed by Brisbane Broncos Rugby League Club Limited (ACN 010 769 025) in accordance with Section 127 of the Corporations Act 2001 in the presence of

??Signature of director



Signature of director/company secretary
(Please delete as applicable)

Name of director (print)Name of director/company secretary (print)Address of director (print)Address of director/company secretary (print)Executed by Bulldogs Rugby League Club Limited (ACN 001 869 405) in accordance with Section 127 of the Corporations Act 2001 in the presence of

??Signature of director



Signature of director/company secretary
(Please delete as applicable)

Name of director (print)Name of director/company secretary (print)Address of director (print)Address of director/company secretary (print)
Executed by Cronulla-Sutherland District Rugby League Football Club Limited (ACN 002 692 186) in accordance with Section 127 of the Corporations Act 2001 in the presence of

??Signature of director



Signature of director/company secretary
(Please delete as applicable)

Name of director (print)Name of director/company secretary (print)Address of director (print)Address of director/company secretary (print)
Executed by Cowboys Rugby League Football Limited (ACN 060 382 961) in accordance with Section 127 of the Corporations Act 2001 in the presence of

??Signature of director



Signature of director/company secretary
(Please delete as applicable)

Name of director (print)Name of director/company secretary (print)Address of director (print)Address of director/company secretary (print)
Executed by Eastern Suburbs District Rugby League Football Club Limited (ACN 002 681 416) in accordance with Section 127 of the Corporations Act 2001 in the presence of

??Signature of director



Signature of director/company secretary
(Please delete as applicable)

Name of director (print)Name of director/company secretary (print)Address of director (print)Address of director/company secretary (print)
Executed by Melbourne Storm Rugby League Limited (ACN 081 369 468) in accordance with Section 127 of the Corporations Act 2001 in the presence of

??Signature of director



Signature of director/company secretary
(Please delete as applicable)

Name of director (print)Name of director/company secretary (print)Address of director (print)Address of director/company secretary (print)
Executed by Manly-Waringah Sea Eagles Limited (ACN 003 348 436) in accordance with Section 127 of the Corporations Act 2001 in the presence of

??Signature of director



Signature of director/company secretary
(Please delete as applicable)

Name of director (print)Name of director/company secretary (print)Address of director (print)Address of director/company secretary (print)
Executed by Newcastle Knights Limited (ACN 003 363 228) in accordance with Section 127 of the Corporations Act 2001 in the presence of

??Signature of director



Signature of director/company secretary
(Please delete as applicable)

Name of director (print)Name of director/company secretary (print)Address of director (print)Address of director/company secretary (print)
Executed by Penrith District Rugby League Football Club Limited (ACN 003 908 583) in accordance with Section 127 of the Corporations Act 2001 in the presence of

??Signature of director



Signature of director/company secretary
(Please delete as applicable)

Name of director (print)Name of director/company secretary (print)Address of director (print)Address of director/company secretary (print)
Executed by Parramatta National Rugby League Club Limited (ACN 092 536 519)  in accordance with Section 127 of the Corporations Act 2001 in the presence of

??Signature of director



Signature of director/company secretary
(Please delete as applicable)

Name of director (print)Name of director/company secretary (print)Address of director (print)Address of director/company secretary (print)
Executed by South Sydney District Rugby League Football Club Limited (ACN 002 487 390) in accordance with Section 127 of the Corporations Act 2001 in the presence of

??Signature of director



Signature of director/company secretary
(Please delete as applicable)

Name of director (print)Name of director/company secretary (print)Address of director (print)Address of director/company secretary (print)
Executed by St George Illawarra Rugby League Football Club Pty Limited (ACN 085 008 340) in accordance with Section 127 of the Corporations Act 2001 in the presence of

??Signature of director



Signature of director/company secretary
(Please delete as applicable)

Name of director (print)Name of director/company secretary (print)Address of director (print)Address of director/company secretary (print)
Executed by The Canberra Raiders Pty Limited (ACN 068 819 152) in accordance with Section 127 of the Corporations Act 2001 in the presence of

??Signature of director



Signature of director/company secretary
(Please delete as applicable)

Name of director (print)Name of director/company secretary (print)Address of director (print)Address of director/company secretary (print)
Executed by Wests Tigers Rugby League Football Pty Limited (ACN 090 076 403) in accordance with Section 127 of the Corporations Act 2001 in the presence of

??Signature of director



Signature of director/company secretary
(Please delete as applicable)

Name of director (print)Name of director/company secretary (print)Address of director (print)Address of director/company secretary (print)
Executed by Gold Coast NRL Pty Limited (ACN 115 246 878) in accordance with Section 127 of the Corporations Act 2001 in the presence of

??Signature of director



Signature of director/company secretary
(Please delete as applicable)

Name of director (print)Name of director/company secretary (print)Address of director (print)Address of director/company secretary (print)

SCHEDULE 1
MEDIATION TERMS
THIS AGREEMENT IS MADE ON 	


BETWEEN THE FOLLOWING PARTIES (in this agreement called 'the parties')

[insert]

AND

[insert]

AND THE MEDIATOR (called 'the mediator')

[insert]


APPOINTMENT OF MEDIATOR

1. The parties appoint the mediator to mediate in accordance with the terms of this agreement the grievance between them.  The grievance is briefly described in Schedule 1 to this agreement ('the Grievance').  The mediator accepts the appointment to mediate the Grievance at a time and place agreed to by the parties and set out in Schedule 2 of this Agreement.

ROLE OF MEDIATOR

2. The mediator will be neutral and impartial.  The mediator will assist the parties to attempt to resolve the Grievance by helping them to:
(a) systematically isolate the issues in dispute;
(b) develop options for the resolution of these issues;
(c) explore the usefulness of these options; and
(d) meet their interests and needs.
3. The mediator may meet with the parties together or separately.
4. The mediator will not:
(a) give legal or other professional advice to any party; or
(b) impose a result on any party; or
(c) make decisions for any party.
5. The mediator will not accept an appointment in relation to any proceedings concerning the Grievance.
6. Neither party will take action to cause the mediator to breach Clause 5.
CONFLICTS OF INTEREST

7. The mediator must, prior to commencement of the mediation, disclose to the parties to the best of the mediator's knowledge any prior dealings with any of the parties as well as any interest in the Grievance.
8. If in the course of the mediation the mediator becomes aware of any circumstances that might reasonably be considered to affect the mediator's capacity to act impartially, the mediator must immediately inform the parties of these circumstances.  The parties will then decide whether the mediation will continue with that mediator or with a new mediator appointed by the parties.
CO-OPERATION BY THE PARTIES

9. The parties must co-operate with the mediator and each other during the mediation.
AUTHORITY TO RESOLVE AND REPRESENTATION AT THE MEDIATION SESSION

10. The parties must attend the mediation with authority to resolve the Grievance within parameters that can reasonably be anticipated.
11. At the mediation each party may have one or more other persons, including legally qualified persons, to assist and advise them.
COMMUNICATION BETWEEN THE MEDIATOR AND THE PARTIES

12. Any information disclosed to a mediator in private is to be treated as confidential by the mediator unless the party making the disclosure states otherwise.  Such information is also to be regarded as 'without prejudice'.
CONFIDENTIALITY OF THE MEDIATION

13. The parties and the mediator will not disclose to anyone not involved in the mediation any information or document given to them during the mediation unless required by law to make such a disclosure.
14. The parties and the mediator agree that subject to Clauses 18 and 19, the following will be without prejudice and will not be disclosed in, or be the subject of a subpoena to give evidence or to produce documents, in any proceedings in respect of the Grievance:
(a) Any settlement proposal whether made by a party or the mediator.
(b) The willingness of a party to consider any such proposal.
(c) Any statement made by a party or the mediator during the mediation.
(d) Any information prepared for the mediation.
TERMINATION OF THE MEDIATION

15. A party may terminate the mediation at any time after consultation with the mediator.
16. The mediator may terminate the mediator's involvement in the mediation if, after consultation with the parties, the mediator feels unable to assist the parties to achieve resolution of the Grievance.
RESOLUTION OF THE GRIEVANCE

17. If resolution is reached at the mediation, the terms of the resolution must be written down and signed by the parties before they leave the mediation.
ENFORCEMENT OF THE AGREED RESOLUTION 

18. Any party may enforce the terms of the agreed resolution by judicial proceedings.
19. For the purposes of Clause 18, any party may call evidence of the agreed resolution including evidence from the mediator and any other person engaged in the mediation.
EXCLUSION OF LIABILITY AND INDEMNITY 

20. The mediator will not be liable to a party for any act or omission in the performance of the mediator's obligations under this agreement unless the act or omission is fraudulent.
21. The parties together and separately indemnify the mediator against any claim for act or omission in the performance of the mediator's obligations under this agreement unless the act or omission is fraudulent.
THE COST OF THE MEDIATION

22. The parties together and separately will be liable to the mediator for the mediator's fees described in Schedule 3.  The parties will share equally all the other costs of the mediation described in Schedule 3.
23. If the mediation does not result in an agreed resolution, the costs of the mediation will be costs in the cause, ie costs of the mediation (including those of any legal representatives attending the mediation) will be treated as part of the overall costs in subsequent court proceedings.

SCHEDULE 1: DESCRIPTION OF THE GRIEVANCE

[insert]

SCHEDULE 2: DATE AND VENUE OF MEDIATION CONFERENCE


[insert]


SCHEDULE 3:  COSTS OF THE MEDIATION


Mediator's Fees and Expenses: [insert]


SIGNING OF THE MEDIATION TERMS


The parties and the mediator have signed these mediation terms as follows:

Date: 			[insert] 2006



_____________________________     ____________________________
Party	(Signature)



_____________________________     ____________________________
Party	(Signature)



_____________________________     ____________________________
Party	(Signature)



_____________________________     ____________________________
Party	(Signature)


2












ME_71295709_2 (W2003)





ME_71295709_2 (W2003)






ME_71295709_2 (W2003)

