APPOINTMENT OF RICHARD MAURICE AS THE MEDIATOR 
	
1. The parties appoint Richard Maurice Barrister ("the mediator") to assist them to resolve the dispute that is briefly described in Item 1 in the schedule to this agreement (the Dispute). 
     
2. The mediator accepts the appointment to mediate the Dispute at the time and place set out in Item 2 of the schedule or at another time or place that the parties agree to. 
ROLE OF THE MEDIATOR AND OF THE PARTIES 
     
3. The mediator and each party will use their best endeavours to resolve the Dispute by: 

a. systematically identifying the issues in dispute; 

b. developing alternatives and options for the resolution of the Dispute; 

c. exploring the usefulness of each alternative; and 

d. seeking to achieve a resolution which is acceptable to the parties and which meets their interests and needs. 
     
4. The mediator will be neutral and impartial. 
     
5. The mediator will not: 

a. give legal or other professional advice to any party; 

b. impose an outcome on any party; or 

c. make any decision for any of the parties. 

6. The mediator can meet with the parties jointly and/or separately, as the mediator determines. 

CONFLICT OF INTEREST 
     
7. The mediator must, before the commencement of the mediation disclose to the parties, to the best of the mediator's knowledge, any prior association with any of the parties as well as disclose any interest in the Dispute. 
     
8. If in the course of the mediation the mediator becomes aware of any circumstances that might reasonably be considered to affect the mediator's capacity to act impartially, the mediator must inform the parties of those circumstances and the parties may agree that the mediator may continue to mediate. 

CO-OPERATION OF THE PARTIES 
     
9. Each party agrees to take part in the mediation in good faith. 
     
10. Each party will comply with the reasonable requests and directions of the mediator in relation to the conduct of the mediation. 
PRE-MEDIATION MEETING 
     
11. As part of the mediation the mediator may conduct a pre-mediation meeting in order to establish a timetable and procedure for the conduct of the mediation. 
     
12. Unless the parties and the mediator agree otherwise, the parties and their representatives who are to attend the mediation are expected to attend the pre- mediation meeting. 

AUTHORITY TO SETTLE AND REPRESENTATION AT THE MEDIATION 
     
13. Each party must have in attendance at the mediation a person or persons who will have the ultimate authority to settle the Dispute.  If that is not reasonably practical, the mediator and other parties are to be notified prior to the mediation and each party must then have in attendance at the mediation a person with sufficient authority to recommend to the ultimate decision maker whether or not and in what manner to settle the Dispute, and whose recommendation is likely to be accepted. 
     
14. Each party can, with the consent of the mediator, attend the mediation with one or more persons to assist or advise the parties. 

CONFIDENTIALITY OF THE MEDIATION PROCESS 
     
15. Any information disclosed during the mediation process by a party or that party's representative in private will be treated by the mediator as confidential, unless the party making the disclosure states otherwise. 
     
16. The parties and the mediator will not disclose to any person not present at the mediation any information or document given to them during the mediation unless required by law to make such disclosure, or unless permitted or required to do so under the provisions of this agreement.
      
17. A party may disclose information or documents obtained during the mediation to a person not present at the mediation where that party needs to do so in order to obtain professional advice or where the person is within that party's legitimate field of intimacy. A party disclosing information or documents in these circumstances must inform the professional advisor or any such person that the information or documents are confidential. 

18. The parties and the mediator agree that, subject to Clause 21, the following will be privileged and will not be disclosed, tendered as evidence, or be the subject of a subpoena to give evidence or produce documents, in any proceedings relating to the dispute: 
a. Any settlement proposal, whether made by a party, person at the mediation or by the mediator. 
b. The willingness of a party to consider such a proposal. 
c. Any statement made by a party, person attending or the mediator during the mediation 
d. Any information or document prepared for or provided during the mediation process. 
     
19. If a party produces a document at the mediation that otherwise would be privileged from production or from admission into evidence, that party does not waive that privilege by producing the document. 
RECORDING OF SETTLEMENTS 

20. If the parties agree to resolve the Dispute, a note of the essential terms of the settlement must be signed by or on behalf of the parties, before they leave the mediation. 
INDEMNITY AND EXCLUSION OF LIABILITY 

21. The parties agree that the mediator will not be liable to any party for any act or omission in the performance of the mediator's duties and obligations under this agreement unless the act or omission is fraudulent. 
     
22. The parties, together and separately, indemnify the mediator against any claim for any act or omission in the performance of the mediator's duties under this agreement unless the act or omission is fraudulent.

THE COST OF THE MEDIATION 

23. The parties will pay the Mediator's fees which are a base fee of $1,230.00 which includes a brief pre-mediation conference, reading of any material and up to the first 3 hours of mediation.  Thereafter the fee is $410.00 per hour or part thereof (charged in units of $82 per 12 minutes).  To these fees is to be added 10% GST.
     
24. Unless the parties agree otherwise they will share equally all the fees and costs of the mediation (each to pay $615 for the base fee and $205 per hour thereafter) . These costs are to be paid within seven days of the mediation however the mediator may request estimated fees to be paid prior to the mediation. Any outstanding fees and costs attract interest at the rate of 2% per month or part thereof.

TERMINATION OF THE MEDIATION
     
25. A party may terminate his or her involvement in the mediation at any time but only after consultation with the mediator. 
     
26. The mediator may terminate the mediator's involvement in the mediation if, after consultation with the parties, the mediator feels unable to assist the parties to achieve resolution of the Dispute. 

SCHEDULE TO THIS MEDIATION AGREEMENT 

ITEM 1 
Names of the parties:

Party 1  ...................................................................................................

Party 2  ...................................................................................................

Party 3  ...................................................................................................

ITEM 2 
The Dispute: 
ITEM 3 

Date of mediation: 

Place of mediation: 

Edmund Barton Chambers Annexe
Level 7, Suite 124
Museum Towers Building
267 Castlereagh St, Sydney 2000

Commencement time of mediation: 

SIGNATURES TO MEDIATION AGREEMENT


SIGNED by Party 1
......................................

Witness


SIGNED by Party 2
......................................

Witness



SIGNED by Party 3
......................................


Witness




SIGNED by the mediator 
Richard Maurice
1


1
Richard Maurice Mediation Agreement

