  

Australian Industrial Relations Commission
Workplace Relations Act 1996
Certified Agreement

1. 	TITLE
This agreement shall be known as the Eastern Health - AMA Visiting Medical Officers Agreement 2005 ("the Agreement"). 
2. 	ARRANGEMENT
This Agreement is arranged as follows;

Clause
1. 	TITLE
2. 	ARRANGEMENT
3. 	INCIDENCE AND PARTIES BOUND
4. 	TERM OF THE AGREEMENT
5. 	NO EXTRA CLAIMS
6.  	NO DISADVANTAGE
7. 	CONTINUITY OF EMPLOYMENT
8. 	CLASSIFICATIONS
Specialist
Visiting Medical Officer (VMO)
Senior specialist
Principal Specialist
Executive specialist
9. 	REMUNERATION
10. 	SALARY PACKAGING
11. 	PHYSICAL WORKING CONDITIONS
12. 	PROVISION OF MOBILE PHONES or REIMBURSEMENT OFCOSTS
13. 	DISPUTE RESOLUTION
Framework for resolution
Process for resolving disputes over the application of this Agreement:
14. 	TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT
TERMINATION BY EITHER PARTY ON NOTICE
15. 	PARENTAL LEAVE
15.2 Basic entitlement
15.3 Maternity leave
15.4 Paternity leave
15.5 Adoption leave
15.6 Variation of period of parental leave
15.7 Parental leave and other entitlements
15.8 Transfer to a safe job
15.9 Returning to work after a period of parental leave
15.10 Replacement employees
16. 	SABBATICAL LEAVE
17. 	LONG SERVICE LEAVE
18. 	PUBLIC HOLIDAYS
19. 	SICK LEAVE
20. 	COMPASSIONATE/ BEREAVEMENT LEAVE
21. 	ANNUAL LEAVE
22. 	CONFERENCE LEAVE
23. 	FRACTIONAL ALLOCATION
24. 	RATES OF PAY
25. 	ON-CALL CATEGORIES, RATES FOR ON-CALL  AND RECALL
25.1 ON-CALL CATEGORIES - DEFINITION
Category 1:
Category 2:
Category 3:
Category 4:
25.2 ONCALL PERIOD
25.3 ONCALL RATES AS AT 1 JANUARY 2005
25.3.1 Eastern Health Acute Program
25.3.2 Eastern Health Aged Care and Rehabilitation Program
25.3.3 Eastern Health Mental Health Program
25.4 Recall Rates as at 1 January 2005
26. 	EXECUTION

3. 	INCIDENCE AND PARTIES BOUND
This Agreement shall bind Eastern Health, all of its employees who are employed in the capacity of Visiting Medical Officers, the Australian Medical Association Victoria ("AMA") and the Australian Salaried Medical Officers Federation ("ASMOF").  
4. 	TERM OF THE AGREEMENT 
This Agreement shall be commence on the date of certification and operate in accordance with the Act until its nominal expiry date of 31 December 2005.  
5. 	NO EXTRA CLAIMS
The parties bound by this Agreement acknowledge that this Agreement settles all claims in relation to the terms and conditions of employment of the Visiting Medical Officer(s) to whom it applies and agree that they will not pursue any extra claims during the term of this Agreement, whether or not the claims deal with the subject matter contained in this Agreement.  

Subject to Eastern Health meeting its obligations to consult arising under the Award or this Agreement or a contract of employment binding on Eastern Health, it is not the intent of this provision to inhibit, limit or restrict Eastern Health's right or ability to introduce change at the workplace.
6.  	NO DISADVANTAGE
Nothing in this Agreement shall effect any superior term or condition of employment to which a Visiting Medical Officer was entitled by virtue of a contract, letter of appointment or other instrument prior to the commencement of this Agreement.
7. 	CONTINUITY OF EMPLOYMENT 
Nothing in this Agreement affects the continuity of employment of a Visiting Medical Officer covered by this Agreement for the purpose of any entitlements.  

If a Visiting Medical Officer covered by this Agreement was employed by Eastern Health prior to certification of this Agreement, the Visiting Medical Office's leave entitlements which accrued prior to certification with Eastern Health will be recognised by Eastern Health, and those accrued entitlements will not be diminished in any way.  This Agreement is not intended to affect any right which a Visiting Medical Officer covered by this Agreement and Eastern Health may have apart from this Agreement. 
8. 	CLASSIFICATIONS 
Specialist
Specialist means a doctor who possesses a higher qualification appropriate to the speciality in which they are employed or has sufficient experience in their specialty to satisfy Eastern Health that the appointment is warranted.  
Visiting Medical Officer (VMO)
Visiting Medical Officer (VMO) means a specialist who is paid by Eastern Health on an hourly basis and is NOT a full time specialist  or a Hospital Medical Officer.
Senior specialist
Senior specialist means a doctor who in addition to the qualifications for a specialist role has:
* Not less than 3 years practical experience in that specialty after obtaining the higher qualification; or
* Sufficient experience in the specialities to satisfy Eastern Health that the appointment is warranted.  
Where the doctor has a first specialist qualification and is undergoing further specialist training, the time spent since acquiring their first specialist qualification shall be counted as experience within this and any higher classification.  
Principal Specialist
Principal specialist means a doctor appointed as such by Eastern Health.  In addition to the qualifications for a specialists role, they must have:
* Not less than nine years' practical experience in that specialty after obtaining higher qualification; or
* Sufficient experience in the specialties to satisfy Eastern Health that the appointment is warranted.  
A doctor appointed as a head of department in a teaching hospital Group 1A or Group 1B will be paid no less than a principal specialist level 2.  
Where the doctor has a first specialist qualification and is undergoing further specialist training, the time spent since acquiring their first specialist qualification shall be counted as experience within this and any higher classification. 
Executive specialist
Executive specialist means a doctor appointed as such by Eastern Health.  An executive specialist is required to exercise professional leadership and/or management accountability which is clearly outside of the responsibilities of a principal specialist level 2.  The examples of such responsibility could include:
* Responsibility over a range of units/departments
* Direct supervision of a number of principal specialists level 2
* Being required to serve on the executive management team of Eastern Health
* Demonstrated leadership in the activities of a significant national and/or international learned College or Society within their discipline
* Executive specialists roles will only be utilised in major teaching Hospitals where the organisational structure contains such a role and a suitable candidate is available to fill it. 
9. 	REMUNERATION 
The remuneration rates as at 1 January 2005 are set out in Clause 24.  
10. 	SALARY PACKAGING
Employees are permitted to salary package in accordance with Eastern Health policy as amended from time to time.  Eastern Health and AMA/ASMOF will jointly approach providers of salary packaging services to ensure improved service provision salary packaging to employees covered by this Agreement.  

The remuneration specified in this Agreement can be packaged and taken as a combination of salary and benefits up to the legislative limit specified in the Fringe Benefits Tax Assessment Act 1986 (Cth) subject to the VMO paying normal administrative costs.  If changes to legislation result in the cost of this arrangement to Eastern Health increasing, then any continuation of a salary packaging arrangement will be dependant on the participating VMO meeting any additional costs, including taxation or fringe benefits, associated with such changes.  
11. 	PHYSICAL WORKING CONDITIONS
It is agreed that the following infrastructure standards are ideal:
* Access to work stations, telecommunication and information technology capable of ensuring administrative and similar work can be accomplished efficiently;
* 24 hour access to library and all of its resources;
* Reserved car parking paid for by Eastern Health and available for a doctor on call and recalled.  Parking spaces must be well lit and in a secure place within 200 meters from the front door of the Hospital's main entrance. Nothing in this clause affects Eastern Health's arrangements for car parking for which the doctor pays when he/she is not on call and recalled;
* Access to internet and email facilities for work purposes;
* Space available for private discussion with patient's relatives;
* Access to security escort late at night.
Where this is currently not the case, Eastern Health, DHS and the AMA/ASMOF will consult to discuss how quickly the situation can be remedied within available capital funding budgets.  
12. 	PROVISION OF MOBILE PHONES or REIMBURSEMENT OFCOSTS
When Eastern Health requires a doctor to be in telephone contact for work purposes, the Hospital shall provide a fully funded mobile phone for the doctor(s) work use; OR fully reimburse the VMO for all reasonable and actual costs incurred by the VMO when making or receiving work related telephone calls.  
13. 	DISPUTE RESOLUTION 
Where the parties fail to agree upon some issue, matter or thing, the subject of this Agreement, they shall follow these procedures:
Framework for resolution 
The parties intend that most workplace issues will be resolved informally between a VMO and the medical VMO's immediate supervisor.  The parties agree that they will promptly resolve any workplace issue by informal conciliation without resort to industrial action of any kind by a VMO or stand downs by Eastern Health.  

Every effort will be made to ensure that any workplace dispute will be resolved within 7 days or as close to 7 days as practical circumstances will allow.  This timeframe includes disputes relating to the work required, overtime and un-rostered hours and the appropriate rate of payment as specified in the Agreement. 

Until the dispute is resolved, work shall continue normally while discussions take place.  Health and safety matters may be exempted where appropriate.  

No party is prejudiced as to final settlement of the dispute by continuing to work during the dispute.  
Process for resolving disputes over the application of this Agreement:
Where a particular dispute that arises is one over the application of this Agreement (in accordance with s170LW of the Act) the following process shall apply:

The VMO shall attempt to resolve the dispute directly with their Department head.  The VMO and/or the Department head may request the presence of another member of staff or representative to represent their interests.  

If the matter is still unresolved it shall be referred to the Director of Medical Services (or equivalent) who will meet with the VMO and, if the VMO chooses, an Association representative or any other person.  

If parties are still unable to reach a resolution about matters concerning the application of this Agreement, the matter shall be referred to the Australian Industrial Relations Commission for resolution and, if necessary, arbitration, pursuant to section 170LW of the Workplace Relations Act 1996.  
14. 	TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT 
TERMINATION BY EITHER PARTY ON NOTICE

Either Eastern Health or a VMO may terminate the employment of the VMO by serving on the other party three (3) months' written notice of termination.  At Eastern Health Service's election, it can pay the VMO salary in lieu of the notice or give a combination of notice and payment in lieu of notice.

Eastern Health may terminate the employment of a VMO without notice if the VMO at any time:
* Commits any serious or persistent breach of any of the provisions of this Agreement;
* Engages in serious misconduct or neglect in the discharge of his/her duties;
* divulges either directly or indirectly, to any person, confidential knowledge or information acquired during the course of his/her employment; 
* Does not hold current registration as required by the Medical Practice Act 1994; 
* Is found to have engaged in unprofessional conduct of a serious nature as referred to in section 50 of the Medical Practice Act 1994 or if any limitation, condition or restriction on the practice of a medical VMO is imposed pursuant to that Act; 
* After counselling still fails to meet the standards reasonably required by Eastern Health Service's credentialing processes in respect of the continuing education of the VMO; 
* If in the opinion of two (2) independent psychiatrists (the AMA will be consulted re the choice of these Medical Practitioners) the VMO becomes of unsound mind; 
* Is found guilty of any criminal offence other than an offence which in the reasonable opinion of Eastern Health should not effect the VMO's employment by Eastern Health;
* If the VMO fails or refuses to comply with any lawful directions given to the VMO by Eastern Health Service or hospital or any person authorised by Eastern Health Service;
* If Eastern Health Service revokes the VMO's credentials;
* Is incapable of providing, or is not a fit and proper person to provide, the services of a Medical Specialist including that they have been incapacitated by reason of illness or injury from discharging their duties in full for a period of longer than 3 months; or
* Is impaired by or under the influence of drugs or alcohol in the discharge of his/her duties or are unable to carry out their duties because of impairment by drugs or alcohol.

In the exercise of any of its powers in relation to the termination of employment of the VMO, Eastern Health shall make due enquiry, apply the principles of natural justice and comply with all applicable laws of the State of Victoria, including the provisions of the Health Services Act 1988. 

If the VMO's appointment to Eastern Health's medical staff has terminated, he/she may not provide medical services at Eastern Health campuses to Hospital Patients, Private Patients or Compensable Patients.
15. 	PARENTAL LEAVE
15.1 For the purpose of this clause child means a child of the employee under the age of one year except for adoption of a child where 'child' means a person under the age of five years who is placed with the employee for the purposes of adoption, other than a child or step-child of the employee or of the spouse of the employee or a child who has previously lived continuously with the employee for a period of six months or more. 
15.1.2 Subject to 15.1.3, in this clause, spouse includes a de facto or former spouse. 
15.1.3 In relation to 15.5, spouse includes a de facto spouse but does not include a former spouse. 
15.2 Basic entitlement 
15.2.1 After twelve months continuous service, parents are entitled to a combined total of 52 weeks parental leave on a shared basis in relation to the birth or adoption of their child. For females, maternity leave may be taken and for males, paternity leave may be taken. Parental leave is unpaid leave except that VMOs will be entitled to 6 weeks paid maternity leave as part of their 52 weeks total maternity leave or one week's paid paternity leave (as applicable).  Adoption leave may be taken in the case of adoption. 
15.2.2 Subject to 15.3.6, parental leave is to be available to only one parent at a time, in a single unbroken period, except that both parents may simultaneously take: 
15.2.2(a) for maternity and paternity leave, an unbroken period of up to one week at the time of the birth of the child; 
15.2.2(b) for adoption leave, an unbroken period of up to three weeks at the time of placement of the child. 
15.3 Maternity leave 
15.3.1 An employee must provide notice to the employer in advance of the expected date of commencement of parental leave. The notice requirements are: 
15.3.1(a) of the expected date of confinement (included in a certificate from a registered medical practitioner stating that the employee is pregnant) - at least ten weeks; 
15.3.1(b) of the date on which the employee proposes to commence maternity leave and the period of leave to be taken - at least four weeks. 

15.3.2 When the employee gives notice under 15.3.1(a) the employee must also provide a statutory declaration stating particulars of any period of paternity leave sought or taken by her spouse and that for the period of maternity leave she will not engage in any conduct inconsistent with her contract of employment. 
15.3.3 An employee will not be in breach of this clause if failure to give the stipulated notice is occasioned by confinement occurring earlier than the presumed date. 
15.3.4 Subject to 15.2.1 and unless agreed otherwise between the employer and employee, an employee may commence parental leave at any time within six weeks immediately prior to the expected date of birth. 
15.3.5 Where an employee continues to work within the six week period immediately prior to the expected date of birth, or where the employee elects to return to work within six weeks after the birth of the child, an employer may require the employee to provide a medical certificate stating that she is fit to work on her normal duties. 
15.3.6Special maternity Leave Where the pregnancy of an employee not then on maternity leave terminates after 28 weeks other than by the birth of a living child, then the employee may take unpaid special maternity leave of such periods as a registered medical practitioner certifies as necessary 
15.3.7(a) Where an employee is suffering from an illness not related to the direct consequences of the confinement, an employee may take any paid sick leave to which she is entitled in lieu of, or in addition to, maternity leave. 
15.3.7(b) Where an employee not then on maternity leave suffers illness related to her pregnancy, she may take any paid sick leave to which she is then entitled and such further unpaid maternity leave as a registered medical practitioner certifies as necessary before her return to work. The aggregate of paid sick leave, maternity leave and parental leave, including parental leave taken by a spouse, may not exceed 52 weeks. 
15.3.7(c) Where leave is granted under 15.3.4, during the period of leave and on the provision of four weeks' written notice, an employee may return to work at any time as agreed between the employer and the employee 
15.4 Paternity leave 
15.4.1 An employee will provide to the employer at least ten weeks prior to each proposed period of paternity leave, with: 
15.4.1(a) a certificate from a registered medical practitioner which names his spouse, states that she is pregnant and the expected date of confinement, or states the date on which the birth took place; and 

15.4.1(b) written notification of the dates on which he proposes to start and finish the period of paternity leave; and 
15.4.1(c) a statutory declaration stating: 
15.4.1(c)(i) he will take that period of paternity leave to become the primary care-giver of a child; 
15.4.1(c)(ii) particulars of any period of maternity leave sought or taken by his spouse; and 
15.4.1(c)(iii) that for the period of paternity leave he will not engage in any conduct inconsistent with his contract of employment. 
15.4.2 The employee will not be in breach of 15.4.1 if the failure to give the required period of notice is because of the birth occurring earlier than expected, the death of the mother of the child, or other compelling circumstances. 
15.5 Adoption leave 
15.5.1 The employee will notify the employer at least ten weeks in advance of the date of commencement of adoption leave and the period of leave to be taken. An employee may commence adoption leave prior to providing such notice, where through circumstances beyond the control of the employee, the adoption of a child takes place earlier. 
15.5.2 Before commencing adoption leave, an employee will provide the employer with a statutory declaration stating: 
15.5.2(a) the employee is seeking adoption leave to become the primary care-giver of the child; 
15.5.2(b) particulars of any period of adoption leave sought or taken by the employee's spouse; and 
15.5.2(c) that for the period of adoption leave the employee will not engage in any conduct inconsistent with their contract of employment. 

15.5.3 An employer may require an employee to provide confirmation from the appropriate government authority of the placement. 
15.5.4 Where the placement of child for adoption with an employee does not proceed or continue, the employee will notify the employer immediately and the employer will nominate a time not exceeding four weeks from receipt of notification for the employee's return to work. 
15.5.5 An employee will not be in breach of this clause as a consequence of failure to give the stipulated periods of notice if such failure results from a requirement of an adoption agency to accept earlier or later placement of a child, the death of a spouse, or other compelling circumstances. 

15.5.6 An employee seeking to adopt a child is entitled to unpaid leave for the purpose of attending any compulsory interviews or examinations as are necessary as part of the adoption procedure. The employee and the employer should agree on the length of the unpaid leave. Where agreement cannot be reached, the employee is entitled to take up to two days unpaid leave. Where paid leave is available to the employee, the employer may require the employee to take such leave instead. 
15.6 Variation of period of parental leave 
Unless agreed otherwise between the employer and employee, an employee may apply to their employer to change the period of parental leave on one occasion. Any such change to be notified at least four weeks prior to the commencement of the changed arrangements. 
15.7 Parental leave and other entitlements 
An employee may in lieu of or in conjunction with parental leave, access any annual leave or long service leave entitlements which they have accrued subject to the total amount of leave not exceeding 52 weeks. 
15.8 Transfer to a safe job 
15.8.1 Where an employee is pregnant and, in the opinion of a registered medical practitioner, illness or risks arising out of the pregnancy or hazards connected with the work assigned to the employee make it inadvisable for the employee to continue at her present work, the employee will, if the employer deems it practicable, be transferred to a safe job at the rate and on the conditions attaching to that job until the commencement of maternity leave. 
15.8.2 If the transfer to a safe job is not practicable, the employee may elect, or the employer may require the employee to commence parental leave for such period as is certified necessary by a registered medical practitioner. 
15.9 Returning to work after a period of parental leave 
15.9.1 An employee will notify of their intention to return to work after a period of parental leave at least four weeks prior to the expiration of the leave. 
15.9.2 An employee will be entitled to the position which they held immediately before proceeding on parental leave. In the case of an employee transferred to a safe job pursuant to 15.8, the employee will be entitled to return to the position they held immediately before such transfer. 
15.9.3 Where such position no longer exists but there are other positions available which the employee is qualified for and is capable of performing, the employee will be entitled to a position as nearly comparable in status and pay to that of their former position. 
15.10 Replacement employees 
15.10.1 A replacement employee is an employee specifically engaged or temporarily promoted or transferred, as a result of an employee proceeding on parental leave. 
15.10.2 Before an employer engages a replacement employee the employer must inform that person of the temporary nature of the employment and of the rights of the employee who is being replaced. 
16. 	SABBATICAL LEAVE 
(i)	Sabbatical leave entitlements are granted to benefit Eastern Health Service as well as the Practitioner.  It is not expected that the Practitioner will resign or retire within 2 years of taking their sabbatical leave entitlement.

(ii)	Twenty-six weeks sabbatical leave shall be available after six (6) years of continuous service with Eastern Health Service based on the ordinary in-hours that would have been worked during such absence.

	In calculating such aggregate of service any period of employment in any of the Eastern Health Service hospitals of less than six continuous months' duration will be disregarded.  Service will be deemed continuous despite any period between an appointment with one Eastern Health Service hospital and another (excluding all periods of paid annual, long service or sick leave) of five weeks or less, but it will be necessary for a Practitioner as part of his/her qualification for any sabbatical leave entitlement, to serve such additional period as equals the period between appointments.

	The onus of proving a sufficient aggregate of service to support a claim of any sabbatical leave entitlement will at all times rest with the Practitioner concerned.

(iii)	The twenty-six weeks sabbatical leave may be split into two (2) thirteen (13) week allotments which are taken within two years of each other.
	Unless Eastern Health Service in its absolute discretion agrees otherwise, if the Practitioner applies for or takes less than twenty-six weeks in one allotment or less than two thirteen week allotments of sabbatical leave which are taken within two years of each other he/she shall be deemed to have received the full entitlement under this Clause and shall not be entitled to any of the balance of his/her entitlement.

(iv)	Application for sabbatical leave, in accordance with Eastern Health Service guidelines, shall be submitted six (6) months prior to the intention to take the leave.  Eastern Health Service guidelines for approval of projects will be available on request.

	The sabbatical leave to which a Practitioner is entitled will be given as soon as practicable having regard to the needs of the hospital but the taking of such leave may be postponed to such date as is mutually agreed.

(v)	Where a Practitioner has proceeded on sabbatical leave, a subsequent qualifying period of six (6) years shall not commence to run until the date of the Practitioner's return to duty following sabbatical leave, provided that where, by mutual agreement, a Practitioner has delayed the taking of sabbatical leave, that period of service between the end of the qualifying period and the taking of such leave shall be included as part of a subsequent qualifying period.

(vi)	Where Eastern Health does not approve the practitioner's programme of study or research within three months of the written application and details, the practitioner may request that his/her application be referred to the Medical Appointments Committee (however titled) of the Health Service. The Health Service and the practitioner shall comply with the written advice of the Medical Appointments Committee except that it may be varied by mutual agreement between the Health Service and the practitioner. 
17. 	LONG SERVICE LEAVE
 (a)	Subject to the provision of sub-clause (b) hereof, a Practitioner after the completion of fifteen (15) years' continuous service will be entitled to leave of absence on full remuneration as in the said sub-clause (b)

(b)	(i)	A  Practitioner who  is and has  been in  the service  of the hospital  for the  period specified in sub-clause (a) hereof will be entitled to six (6) months' leave of absence and thereafter an additional two (2) months' leave of absence on the completion of each additional five (5) years' of service.

In calculating such aggregate of service any period of employment in any of the said hospitals of less than six continuous months' duration will be disregarded. Service will be deemed continuous despite any period between an appointment with one hospital and another (excluding all periods of paid annual, long service or sick leave) of five weeks or less but it will be necessary for a Practitioner as part of his/her qualification for any long service leave entitlement, to service such additional period as equals the period between appointments.

Service, for the purpose of accrual of long service leave, will be deemed to be continuous despite any service worked as a Doctor outside of the scope of the MECA (the Australian Medical Association (Victoria) Limited, Australian Salaried Medical Officers Federation Victorian Branch, Victorian Public Hospital Sector (Hospital Medical Officers) Multi-Employer Certified Agreement 2002) but in a College auspiced specialists training program.  
  
Service also includes all periods during which a practitioner was serving in Her Majesty's Forces or was made available by the employer for National Duty.

(ii)	The onus of proving a sufficient aggregate of service support to claim of any long service leave entitlement will at all times rest with the Practitioner concerned.

(iii)	The long service leave to which a Practitioner is entitled will be given as soon as practicable having regard to the needs of the hospital but the taking of such leave may be postponed to such date as is mutually agreed.

(iv)	A Practitioner who has been in the relevant service for at least the period prescribed in sub-clause (a) hereof, who resigns or retires or whose appointment expires and who has not received long service leave due to him/her under this clause, will be entitled to payment from the hospital equivalent to the remuneration for the period of leave to which the Practitioner would have been entitled under sub-clause (b) (i) hereof, plus a pro rata amount for all services in excess of fifteen (15) years, provided that such resignation or retirement is not due to serious misconduct.

(v)	Upon the death from any cause of a Practitioner who, at the date of death was eligible for a grant of long service leave under sub-clause (a) or sub-clause (c) the hospital will pay to the personal representative of the deceased practitioner the amount that Practitioner would have been entitled to receive had he/she retired immediately prior to the date of his/her death.  Upon the death of a Practitioner whilst on long service leave, the Hospital will pay to the personal representative of the deceased Practitioner a sum equal to the amount which would have been payable to the Practitioner had he/she retired immediately prior to his/her taking such leave less any amount already paid to the Practitioner in respect of such leave.

(c)	A Practitioner who has completed at least ten years' service but less than fifteen years' service with a hospital or hospitals and whose appointment expires or is terminated by the Practitioner or by Eastern Health Service for any cause other than serious misconduct will be entitled to receive such amount of long service leave as equals one-thirtieth of the period of continuous service.

(d)	For the purpose of determining the entitlements of any Practitioner under any provision of this Clause in respect of a period of employment beginning 31 December 1964 and ending after that date, so much of that service as was completed before that date will be reduced by one quarter.

(e)	The basis of any long service leave payment will be at the average of the ordinary hours of work applying over the preceding 2 years of employment at the rate applicable at the time long service leave is taken, or payment may be made in lieu.

(f)	For the purposes of determining hospital service for long service leave purposes, service with recognised institutions under the Health Services Act (1988), Peter MacCallum Cancer Institute and Department of Human Services Victoria will be included.

(g)	Eastern Health at its absolute discretion may agree that a VMO who is entitled to long service leave may, upon application, convert his/ her long service leave entitlement in one of the following ways:
	
(i) taking a period of leave equal to double the period of leave accrued at half the rate of pay for the period of the approved leave; or
(ii) taking a period of leave equal to half the period of leave accrued at double the rate of pay for the period of the approved leave.
VMOs may apply for temporary variation in the number of hours allocated per week during their period of long service leave, providing that such variation will not affect total benefits of entitlements, but enable accrued benefits to be received over a shorter period of time.  Eastern Health at its absolute discretion may agree to such applications and advise the practitioner accordingly in writing.
18. 	PUBLIC HOLIDAYS
(i)	A Practitioner will be entitled to be absent without deduction of pay on the days observed as New Years Day, Australia Day, Good Friday, Easter Monday, Labour Day, Anzac Day, Queen's Birthday, Melbourne Cup Day, Christmas Day and Boxing Day.

(ii)	A Practitioner who is required by the hospital to attend for ordinary duty on a day specified in sub-clause (i) hereof, will be entitled to time off in lieu without loss of pay by mutual agreement, or equivalent hours will be added to the Practitioner's annual leave.
19. 	SICK LEAVE
A Practitioner who becomes unfit for duty due to personal ill-health or injury will be entitled to sick leave for a period or periods not exceeding in aggregate 28 days in any one year.

For three single day absences per year the Practitioner will not be required to provide any supporting evidence to substantiate the claim.

For other days absent due to illness, the hospital may require the Practitioner to provide evidence of illness as follows:

A medical certificate from another Medical Practitioner, but only in circumstances when the certificate may be properly provided;
	OR
A Statutory Declaration, but only for periods of up to 3 consecutive days and only up to 3 occasions in any one year.

(i)	A Practitioner will be paid the remuneration to which he/she would be entitled had he/she attended the ordinary hours of work from which he/she is absent on sick leave.

If the full period of sick leave is not taken during any year of service, such amount as is not taken will be cumulative from year to year.

(ii)	A Practitioner who contracts an infectious disease or suffers any injury arising out of his/her providing services to the hospital will be entitled to have his/her remuneration made up to the remuneration he/she would have received had he/she attended the hours of work from which he/she was absent due to such disease or injury up to a maximum of twenty-six (26) weeks in any one year of service.  This Clause does not impact in any way on a Practitioner's entitlements under the Accident Compensation Act 1985.

(iii)	A Practitioner with responsibilities in relation to members of their immediate family who need their care and support if they are ill, shall be entitled to use up to one week (5 days) per annum from their accrued sick leave to provide care and support.

The Practitioner will, if required, establish by production of a medical certificate or Statutory Declaration, the illness of the person concerned.
20. 	COMPASSIONATE/ BEREAVEMENT LEAVE
(a)	A Practitioner shall upon notification to Eastern Health Service be entitled:
(i)	On the death or serious illness within Australia of a wife, husband, father, mother, brother, sister, child, step-child, mother-in-law, grandparent, grandchild or next of kin;
(ii)	On the death outside Australia of a wife, husband, mother, father, sister, brother, child or next of kin -
To leave not exceeding two working days without deduction of pay up to and including the day of the funeral of the relative.  Proof of such death or illness shall be furnished by the Practitioner to the satisfaction of Eastern Health Service.  This Clause shall have no operation while the period of entitlement coincides with any other period of leave.  For the purposes of this Clause, the words "wife" or "husband" shall include any person who lives with the Practitioner as a de facto partner and shall apply equally to their respective kin as set out in sub-paragraphs (i) and (ii) above.
(b)	A Practitioner on compassionate leave shall be paid according to his/her roster or projected roster.
21. 	ANNUAL LEAVE
21.1 	A practitioner shall be entitled to four weeks annual leave without deduction of pay on completion of each year of service in the hospital. 
21.2	Annual leave will be taken at a time mutually agreed between the Practitioner and Eastern Health Service.

21.3	At least four (4) weeks' notice of intention to take annual leave must be given to the relevant Clinical Services Administration by the Practitioner.

21.4	Where a Practitioner's appointment is terminated with less than twelve (12) months' service, pro-rata annual leave will be granted or paid in lieu upon termination.

21.5	With the exception of the final year of the contract, all annual leave entitlements will, unless Eastern Health Service otherwise agrees, be taken by the Practitioner within six months of the completion of the twelve (12) months in which the leave is accrued.

21.6 All annual leave will be taken within the term of the employment contract period unless agreed otherwise by Eastern Health Service and the Practitioner.

21.7 Sick leave whilst on annual leave

Where a practitioner becomes sick for a period of not less than five days whilst on annual leave and upon return from leave provides the employer with a certificate from a legally qualified medical practitioner other than the practitioner concerned and in accordance with Eastern Health policy, then the number of days not less than the five specified in the certificate will be deducted from any sick leave credit and the annual leave entitlement will be re-credited accordingly.
22. 	CONFERENCE LEAVE
22.1	There will be a maximum of two (2) working weeks paid conference leave per annum which can be cumulative up to two (2) years, in order for the practitioner to attend conference or conferences approved by Eastern Health. Conference leave may be accumulated to a maximum of 4 weeks only.  Whilst on leave the Medical Practitioner shall be paid the in hours fractional remuneration he or she would have received had he or she attended the Hospital during the period of leave.

22.2	The application for conference leave shall be in writing to the Head of Department and shall contain adequate details of the conference or conferences proposed to be attended.
23. 	FRACTIONAL ALLOCATION
23.1	Practitioners under this agreement will be employed to work a specified number of hours per week (known as a "fractional allocation") under a fixed term contract of employment.

23.2	The method of fractional allocation for VMOs should be as per the Lochtenberg Implementation Guidelines finalised in 1995 as follows.

23.3	All VMOs, in conjunction with hospital management should determine their hospital workload on a monthly basis. Activities to be specifically considered are listed below. Not all areas may be applicable to all specialists.

	Direct Public Patient Care and Related Activities
Includes ward rounds, outpatient clinics, pre-operative assessment, operating time, post-operative care, clinical meetings, inter-unitconsultations, completion of operation reports, discharge summaries, casemix information and management of waiting lists.

	Management/Administrative Responsibilities
Duties associated with management and/or administration of a unit,  department or division e.g. roster preparation, budget documents, hospital reports.

	Hospital Meetings.
Attendance at meetings constituted by the hospital or at the request of the hospital, including for example:
* When appointed to represent the medical staff on a hospital committee.
* When appointed to represent hospital management on a committee. 
* Business or management meetings of a unit/department/division. 
* Routinely scheduled meetings with administration.
* Meetings of the medical staff group when related to hospital business.
      
Participation in Quality Assurance Activities as Required by the Hospital Includes reasonable time directly spent in the collection, analysis and presentation of quality assurance data and attendance at scheduled unit/divisional audit meetings. Also included is: 
* Attendance at committees established under ACHS guidelines
* Inter-unit clinical meetings e.g Grand Rounds

Teaching and Research as Required by the Hospital and Not Directly Funded by the University
       
       Oncall/ Recall
As per the Lochtenberg Implementation Guidelines 1995 where on-call and / or notional recall and /or travel payments may be included in the fractional allocation where they are not paid as an additional allowance.

	Practice in a Distant Location
Only to be included where an allowance is not being paid

23.4	When calculating the actual fraction it will be clear that some aspects of the routine workload occur more frequently than others. For Instance, meetings may
occur monthly whereas ward rounds may occur daily or a couple of times a week. Calculations should take account of weekly rosters being transposed on a
      monthly basis.
      
      
24. 	RATES OF PAY
A Visiting Medical Officer shall be paid the minimum rates as at 1 January 2005 set out below

Class. 		Title & Hours				Hourly rate

       Specialist Year 1
LR01		0-7 hours/ week			$86.40
LR02		7.1-10.5 hours/ week			$87.30
LR03		10.6-14 hours/ week			$89.30
LR04		14.1-17.5 hours/ week		$91.10
LR05		17.6+ hours/ week			$92.60
       Specialist Year 2 & 3
LR11		0-7 hours/ week			$88.50
LR12		7.1-10.5 hours/ week			$89.40
LR13		10.6-14 hours/ week			$91.40
LR14		14.1-17.5 hours/ week		$93.10
LR15		17.6+ hours/ week			$94.80
		Senior Specialist Year 1
LR21		0-7 hours/ week			$89.90
LR22		7.1-10.5 hours/ week			$90.90
LR23		10.6-14 hours/ week			$93.00
LR24		14.1-17.5 hours/ week		$94.80
LR25		17.6+ hours/ week			$96.40
		Senior Specialist Year 2
LR31		0-7 hours/ week			$93.60
LR32		7.1-10.5 hours/ week			$94.50
LR33		10.6-14 hours/ week			$96.70
LR34		14.1-17.5 hours/ week		$98.60
LR35		17.6+ hours/ week			$100.30
		Senior Specialist Year 3
LR41		0-7 hours/ week			$97.10
LR42		7.1-10.5 hours/ week			$98.20
LR43		10.6-14 hours/ week			$100.40
LR44		14.1-17.5 hours/ week		$102.30
LR45		17.6+ hours/ week			$104.10
		Senior Specialist Year 4
LR51		0-7 hours/ week			$100.80
LR52		7.1-10.5 hours/ week			$101.80
LR53		10.6-14 hours/ week			$104.20
LR54		14.1-17.5 hours/ week		$106.10
LR55		17.6+ hours/ week			$108.20
		Senior Specialist Year 5
LR61		0-7 hours/ week			$104.50
LR62		7.1-10.5 hours/ week			$105.40
LR63		10.6-14 hours/ week			$108.00
LR64		14.1-17.5 hours/ week		$109.90
LR65		17.6+ hours/ week			$112.00
		Senior Specialist Year 6 & thereafter
LR66		0-7 hours/ week			$108.00
LR67		7.1-10.5 hours/ week			$108.90
LR68		10.6-14 hours/ week			$111.70
LR69		14.1-17.5 hours/ week		$113.50
LR70		17.6+ hours/ week			$115.70
		Principal Specialist - 1
LR71		0-7 hours/ week			$111.50
LR72		7.1-10.5 hours/ week			$112.50
LR73		10.6-14 hours/ week			$115.30
LR74		14.1-17.5 hours/ week 		$117.10
LR75		17.6+ hours/ week			$119.50
		Principal Specialist - 2
LR81		0-7 hours/ week			$115.40
LR82		7.1-10.5 hours/ week			$116.30
LR83		10.6-14 hours/ week			$119.20
LR84		14.1-17.5 hours/ week 		$121.00
LR85		17.6+ hours/ week			$123.50
		Executive Specialist (bottom of range)
		0-7 hours/ week			$115.40
		7.1-10.5 hours/ week			$116.30
		10.6-14 hours/ week			$119.20
		14.1-17.5 hours/ week 		$121.00
		17.6+ hours/ week			$123.50
		Executive Specialist (top of range)
		0-7 hours/ week			$131.60
		7.1-10.5 hours/ week			$132.80
		10.6-14 hours/ week			$136.00
		14.1-17.5 hours/ week 		$138.60
		17.6+ hours/ week			$141.20
25. 	ON-CALL CATEGORIES, RATES FOR ON-CALL  AND RECALL
25.1 ON-CALL CATEGORIES - DEFINITION

The Practitioner's oncall commitments are an integral component of his/her appointment to Eastern Health.  It is expected that he/she will be available for oncall duties as rostered by the Health Service at least to the frequency as specified in the employment contract..

Category 1:
Exclusive or urgent call - requiring immediate telephone response to provide advice and to return to the hospital as soon as clinically required, usually within 30 minutes of life threatening emergencies.  Category 1 on-call requires an exclusive commitment by the Practitioner to one hospital.  (If a Practitioner is called to an emergency in private, he/she will arrange for a colleague to provide a Category 1 response capacity to the public hospital and notify the relevant switchboard etc.)

Category 2:
Non-exclusive call - requiring timely response to provide advice and to return to the hospital as soon as is clinically required, usually within 2 hours.

Category 3:
Fee-for-Service call - requiring the craft group to have their own internal roster with an associated expectation of recall.

Category 4:
Referral recall - where there is no expectation of a roster and recall may very occasionally occur where the relevant on-call clinician recalls a specialist colleague from one of the craft groups.

NB:	Category 4 does not include circumstances where a surgeon, for example, calls in a more senior or more experienced colleague to assist with a difficult case.

The following oncall and recall rates do not apply where oncall and / or notional recall and/ or travel payments are included in the fractional allocation and are not paid as an additional allowance.

25.2 ONCALL PERIOD

As specified in the practitioner's employment contract.

25.3 ONCALL RATES AS AT 1 JANUARY 2005

25.3.1 Eastern Health Acute Program

As specified in the practitioner's employment contract.

25.3.2 Eastern Health Aged Care and Rehabilitation Program

$77.25 per oncall period for Category 2 oncall

25.3.3 Eastern Health Mental Health Program

87.5% of the hourly rate referred to in Clause 19 per oncall period for Category 2 oncall
The rates listed in clauses 25.3.1, 25.3.2 and 25.3.3 apply per oncall period where the practitioner's oncall payment is not rolled up/ annualised as specified in his/ her employment contract.

25.4 Recall Rates as at 1 January 2005

As specified in the practitioner's employment contract.
26. 	EXECUTION 

Signed for and on behalf of Eastern Health by its authorised officer in the presence of:. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
Signature of witness. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
Signature of authorised person. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
Name of witness (print). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
Name of authorised person (print)
Signed for and on behalf of the Australian Medical Association by its authorised officer in the presence of:. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
Signature of witness. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
Signature of authorised person. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
Name of witness (print). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
Name of authorised person (print)
Signed for and on behalf of the Australian Salaried Medical Officers Federation by its authorised officer in the presence of:. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
Signature of witness. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
Signature of authorised person. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
Name of witness (print). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
Name of authorised person (print)






