
No.      
MASTER LEASE AGREEMENT 
THIS MASTER LEASE AGREEMENT (this "Agreement") is entered into as of the last signature date below by and between CISCO SYSTEMS CAPITAL (AUSTRALIA) PTY. LIMITED (ACN 091 404 214) ("Lessor"), an Australian corporation having its principal place of business at Cisco Systems Capital (Australia) Pty. Limited (ABN 14 091 404 214) PO Box 112, Camberwell VIC 3124, Australia and       [NAME OF LESSEE]       ("Lessee"), having its principal place of business at       [address]. Any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate of Lessee in Australia may enter into a Lease and/or Financing Transaction (each as defined below) under this Agreement by signing a Schedule as defined below. For the purposes of this Agreement, "Parent" shall mean a business entity that owns or controls a majority interest of Lessee; "Subsidiary" shall mean a business entity a majority interest of which is owned or controlled by Lessee; and "Affiliate" shall mean a business entity under common majority direct or indirect control with Lessee.
1	THE LEASE OR FINANCING TRANSACTION
1.1	Agreement to Lease or Finance. For good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, Lessor agrees to lease or extend financing to Lessee, and Lessee agrees to lease from Lessor, the equipment together with all, parts, accessories, and substitutions thereto including any bundled software or services (the "Equipment") and/or obtain financing solely for the software licenses, maintenance, services or other one-time charges ("Financed Items") as described in Annex "A" of the relevant lease of financing schedule(s) (each, a "Schedule"). Each Schedule, incorporating the terms and conditions of this Agreement, and all of the other documents and agreements executed in connection herewith (the "Lease Documents") constitutes a separate lease (a "Lease"), or if the Schedule refers only to finance items, then a financing transaction ("Financing Transaction") and shall be effective when signed by both the Lessor and the Lessee.
1.2	Equipment Procurement and Title. Lessee has selected or will select Equipment to be procured from Cisco Systems, Inc. or another manufacturer, reseller or vendor acceptable to Lessor (together, "Vendor"). Lessee will notify Lessor in writing of its procurement or intent to procure such Equipment and its request to enter into a Lease in respect of such Equipment. Lessee shall be deemed to have assigned to Lessor, effective upon Lessor signing the Schedule, all Lessee's right to purchase the Equipment including any purchase order or contract relating thereto; provided that Lessor shall have no obligation under such purchase order or contract other than the obligation to pay the Vendor the purchase price of such Equipment. Lessee shall execute and return to Lessor (i) each Schedule prepared by Lessor relating to any Equipment within five days of Lessee's receipt of same, and (ii) each Certificate of Acceptance within five days of receipt and acceptance of the applicable Equipment. If for whatever reason the lease transaction in respect of any Equipment is not consummated, Lessee shall be solely liable to pay Vendor in accordance with the applicable purchase order or contract and shall indemnify and hold Lessor harmless from any liability or payment incurred or made in connection therewith. Except as expressly set forth in any Lease, and subject to the rights of any assignee of Lessor, Lessor shall at all times retain title to the Equipment.
1.3	Term Not Cancellable and Obligations Absolute. The Original Term of a Lease with respect to each item of Equipment leased or the Financing Transaction with respect to each Financed Item under a Schedule shall commence on the date as specified in the Schedule (the "Commencement Date") and shall continue for the term provided in that Schedule, except in cases provided in Sections 5.4, 10.2 and 11. ONCE THE TERM OF ANY LEASE OR ANY FINANCING TRANSACTION HAS BEGUN, LESSEE'S OBLIGATION TO PAY RENT AND ALL OTHER AMOUNTS DUE UNDER A LEASE OR FINANCING TRANSACTION IS ABSOLUTE AND UNCONDITIONAL, AND SHALL NOT BE AFFECTED BY ANY CIRCUMSTANCE WHATSOEVER, INCLUDING ANY RIGHT OF SETOFF, DEFENSE, COUNTERCLAIM, INTERRUPTION, DEFERMENT OR RECOUPMENT OF ANY KIND, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, CLAIMS OF LESSEE AGAINST LESSOR OR AGAINST ANY MANUFACTURER OR SUPPLIER OF THE EQUIPMENT, OR ANYONE ELSE, FOR ANY REASON WHATSOEVER. Lessee must not withhold any payment under this Lease, or make a deduction from it for any reason including because the Equipment is damaged or does not operate or is not in Lessee's possession.


2	RENT; NET LEASE
	Lessee shall pay Lessor Rent as and when specified in each Schedule, without demand. Unless otherwise agreed in writing by Lessor, the Rent for any extended Term shall be payable monthly, in advance. If the Commencement Date is not the first day of the month, Lessee must pay on the first day of the month immediately following the Commencement Date, the Rent calculated on a daily basis for the period between the Commencement Date and the first day of the month immediately following the Commencement Date. The daily rate of Rent payable in any particular month by Lessee, will be calculated by dividing the Rent payable by the number of days in that month. Lessee shall continue to pay to Lessor Rent, notwithstanding the expiration by its terms of the Original Term or any extension thereof ("Extended Term") until the Equipment has been returned and accepted by Lessor in the condition required under Section 5.2. The entire period of the Original Term and any Extented Term shall be refered to herein as the "Lease Term" Upon Lessee's execution thereof, each Schedule shall constitute a non-cancelable net lease, and all costs, expenses and liabilities relating to the Equipment, including with respect of taxes, insurance and maintenance, shall be borne solely by the Lessee. 
3	REPRESENTATIONS, WARRANTIES AND AGREEMENTS OF LESSEE
	Lessee represents, warrants and agrees that, as of the date of this Agreement and the effective date of each Lease: (a) Lessee has the form of business organization indicated, and is and will remain duly organized and existing in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction currently specified, and is duly qualified to do business wherever necessary to perform its obligations under the Lease, including each jurisdiction in which the Equipment and Financed Items are or will be located. Lessee's legal name is as shown in the preamble of this Agreement. (b) The Lease Documents (1) have been duly authorized by all necessary action consistent with Lessee's form of organization, (2) have been or will be executed by an individual that has been duly authorized to do so, (3) do not require the approval of, or giving notice to, any governmental authority; (4) do not contravene or constitute a default under any applicable law, Lessee's organizational documents, or any agreement, indenture, or other instrument to which Lessee is a party or by which it may be bound, and (5) constitute legal, valid and binding obligations of Lessee enforceable against Lessee, in accordance with the terms thereof. (c) There are no pending actions or proceedings to which Lessee is a party, and there are no other pending actions or proceedings of which Lessee has knowledge which, either individually or in the aggregate, would have a Material Adverse Effect. "Material Adverse Effect" shall mean a material impairment of the ability of Lessee to perform its obligations under or remain in compliance with such Lease or any of the other Lease Documents. (d) The Equipment is personal property and when subjected to use by Lessee will not be or become fixtures under applicable law. (e) Lessee possesses or can become licensed under all patents, trademarks, or copyrights necessary for the operation of the Equipment. (f) The financial statements of Lessee (copies of which have been provided to Lessor) have been provided in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles consistently applied ("GAAP"), and fairly present Lessee's financial condition and the results of its operations as of the date of and for the period covered by such statements, and since the date of such statements there has been no material adverse change in such conditions or operations. 
4	COVENANTS OF LESSEE 
4.1	Credit Review. For each Lease and/or Financing Transaction, Lessee consents to a reasonable credit review. Lessee shall promptly furnish to Lessor financial statements or such other financial information as Lessor may reasonably request regarding the condition and operations of Lessee and those of any guarantor of any Lease.  Lessee must notify Lessor immediately of any event which would have a Material Adverse Effect.
4.2	Additional Documents. Lessee shall obtain and deliver to Lessor any documents, filings, waivers (including landlord and mortgagee waivers), releases and other records, and will take such further action as Lessor may reasonably request in furtherance of Lessor's rights under any of the Lease Documents. Lessee shall provide Lessor at least 20 days prior written notice of any change in Lessee's name, jurisdiction or form of organization. 
4.3	Prohibitions Related to Lease and Equipment. Without the prior written consent of Lessor, Lessee shall not: (a) sell or otherwise dispose of any Equipment; (b) sublease any of the Equipment; (c) create or incur, or permit to exist, any security interest, lien or encumbrance with respect to any of the Equipment; or (d) cause or permit any of the Equipment to be moved outside a state or territory approved by Lessor in writing. Upon thirty (30) days prior written notice to Lessor, Lessee may, at Lessee's sole risk and expense, relocate the Equipment within Australia.


5	USE AND MAINTENANCE
5.1	Use of Equipment. Lessee shall use the Equipment solely in the conduct of its business for the purpose for which the Equipment was designed in compliance with (i) all maintenance and operating manuals or service agreements issued by the supplier or service provider ("Supplier"), (ii) the Supply Contract, so as to preserve all rights to any warranties, indemnities or other rights and remedies conferred therein, (iii) all applicable laws, and (iv) the provisions of any casualty insurance policy carried by Lessee for the Equipment.
5.2	Delivery and Installation; Maintenance and Repair; Inspection. Lessee shall be solely responsible, at its own expense, for the delivery of the Equipment to Lessee and installation thereof. During the Lease Term, Lessee shall keep the Equipment in good repair, condition and working order and at the expiration or termination of the Lease Term with respect to any of the Equipment, have such Equipment inspected and certified acceptable for maintenance service by the manufacturer.  Subject to reasonable advance notice and Lessee's security requirements, Lessee shall make the Equipment and its related log and maintenance records available to Lessor for inspection during business hours.
5.3	Taxes. Lessee agrees to pay when due or reimburse Lessor for all license fees, assessments, and sales, use, property, excise and other taxes and charges (other than franchise taxes or taxes measured by Lessor's net income), now and hereafter imposed by any governmental body or agency upon or with respect to any of the Equipment, or the possession, ownership, use or operation thereof, or any Lease. If required by law to pay property taxes, Lessee shall reimburse Lessor for property taxes within 30 days of Lessee's receipt of an invoice for such taxes. 
5.4	Risk of Loss. Lessee relieves Lessor of responsibility for all risks or physical damage to or loss or destruction of the Equipment upon due acceptance of the Equipment until the end of the Lease Term. Lessee will promptly repair any damaged Equipment unless such Equipment is totally lost, stolen or irreparably damaged for any cause whatever (a "Loss Event"). Within fifteen days (15) days of a Loss Event, Lessee will provide written notice of the loss to Lessor and Lessee will, at Lessor's option, (a) replace the lost Equipment with Like Equipment as defined in Section 9, or (b) pay the Termination Value (as defined below).  Upon receipt by Lessor of such payment, the Rent shall cease to accrue on such item of Equipment, and Lessor shall convey to Lessee all of Lessor's right, title and interest to such Equipment, "AS IS, WHERE IS," but subject to the requirements of any third party insurance carrier in order to settle an insurance claim. "Termination Value" means for any part of the Equipment on a day, means the sum of: (a) present values on that day of the Rent that are still to fall due and which are attributable to that part of the Equipment; and (b) the present value on that day of the residual value of that part of the Equipment assumed by Lessor in calculating Lessor's return at the inception of the relevant Lease. 
5.5	Insurance. Lessee shall obtain and maintain for the Lease Term at its own expense all-risk insurance coverage with respect to the Equipment insuring against, (i) any casualty to the Equipment, for not less than the "Fair Market Value" of the Equipment or such other amount as Lessor may agree with Lessee, and (ii) any commercial liability arising in connection with the Equipment, including both bodily injury and property damage, in the form and amount that is satisfactory to the Lessor. Each insurance policy shall name Lessee as insured and Lessor and its assignees as additional insured and the sole loss payees, and shall provide that it may not be cancelled or altered without at least 30 days' prior written notice thereof being given to Lessor (or 10 days' notice in the event of non-payment of premiums). Lessee shall promptly provide certificates of insurance to Lessor as may be requested from time to time.
5.6	Identification. Lessee shall place and maintain permanent markings on the Equipment evidencing Lessor's ownership, security and other interests therein, as requested by Lessor, and will keep the Equipment free of any other labeling which might be interpreted as a claim of ownership.
5.7	Alterations and Modifications. Lessee shall not make any additions, attachments, alterations or improvements to the Equipment if: (a) the value or function of the Equipment would thereby be impaired, (b) such action would contravene any applicable law or regulation relating to the Equipment or any user thereof, or (c) such action would interfere with maintenance of the Equipment. Any addition, attachment, alteration or improvement to any item of Equipment shall belong to and become the property of Lessor unless it is removed prior to the return of such item of Equipment by Lessee. Lessee shall be responsible for all costs relating to such removal and shall restore such item of Equipment to the condition otherwise required hereunder.


6.	INDEMNITY
	Lessee hereby indemnifies, protects, defends and holds harmless Lessor and any assignee, and their respective agents and employees (each an "Indemnitee") from and against any and all Claims (other than that which directly results from the actual gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Indemnitee) by paying or otherwise discharging the same when it becomes due. Each of the parties shall give the other prompt written notice of any Claim of which it becomes aware. The term "Claim" shall mean all demands, actions, debts, settlements, obligations, damages (whether direct, incidental or consequential), losses, penalties, fines, liabilities (including strict liability), costs, including attorneys fees, arising on account of (1) any Lease Document, (2) the Equipment, any part thereof, or the premises on which such Equipment is located, or (3) the selection, ordering delivery, installation, rejection, possession, use, operation, condition, maintenance or ownership of any item of Equipment, the existence of latent or other defects, any claim in tort for negligence or strict liability, and any claim for patent, trademark or copyright infringement, or for whatever other reason whatsoever.
7.	CONDITIONS PRECEDENT
Lessor's agreement to purchase and lease any Equipment under a Schedule is conditioned upon Lessor's determination that all of the following have been satisfied: (a) Lessor having received the following, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to Lessor: (1) evidence of compliance with the insurance provisions of Section 5.5; (2) real property waivers or collateral access agreements as may be required by Lessor; (3) a certificate of an appropriate officer of Lessee certifying: (A) resolutions duly authorizing the transactions contemplated in the applicable Lease Documents, and (B) the incumbency and signature of the officers of Lessee authorized to execute such documents; (4) all purchase documents pertaining to the Equipment (collectively, the "Supply Contract") and any purchase order assignments required by Lessor; and (4) such other documents, agreements, certificates and assurances as Lessor may reasonably require.
8.	ACCEPTANCE OF EQUIPMENT FOR LEASE; DISCLAIMERS AND WARRANTIES
8.1	Acceptance of Equipment for Lease. Lessee has selected the Equipment and disclaims reliance on any statements whatsoever made by Lessor. Upon delivery, Lessee shall inspect, and if conforming to the applicable Supply Contract, accept the Equipment and execute and deliver to Lessor a Schedule describing the Equipment. The Schedule will evidence Lessee's unconditional and irrevocable acceptance under the Schedule of the Equipment described therein. If for whatever reason a Lease does not commence with respect to any Equipment for which Lessee has already assigned its interest in a purchase order to Lessor, then (i) Lessor shall have no obligation whatsoever to Lessee or under any Supply Contract, (ii) Lessee shall indemnify Lessor against and hold Lessor harmless from any and all liability arising in any way in connection with any Supply Contract or Lessor's right, title and interest in the Equipment, and (iii) upon Lessor's receipt of evidence of payment by Lessee for Equipment that is the subject of any such Supply Contract, Lessor shall assign to Lessee, without warranty, its right, title and interest (if any) in and to the equipment and any Supply Contract relating thereto. 
8.2	Warranties and Disclaimer of Warranties. Lessor warrants to Lessee that, so long as no Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, Lessor will not disturb Lessee's quiet and peaceful enjoyment, possession and use of the Equipment. Lessor assigns to Lessee all manufacturer and Supplier warranty rights, to the extent Lessor holds such rights, without representation or warranty for the Lease Term, upon the execution and delivery of a Schedule with respect to the applicable Equipment. Enforcement of any such rights shall be at Lessee's sole cost and expense. Lessee acknowledges and agrees that, subject to this section: (a) all express and implied terms, conditions and warranties other than the ones set out in this Agreement are excluded; and b) under no circumstances is Lessor liable to Lessee for any direct, indirect or consequential loss or damage (including liability for any injury to or the death of any person or loss or damage to property arising from the possession, operation or use of the goods), howsoever caused (including as a result of Lessor's negligence or the negligence of any employees or agents of Lessor), sustained by Lessee in relation to the goods, their use, or their installation. Nothing in this Agreement is to be construed as affecting the implication of any term into this Lease which by statute (including the Trade Practices Act 1974 (Cth), Sale of Goods Act 1923 (NSW) and equivalent legislation in other jurisdictions) may not be excluded. To the extent permitted by the relevant statute, Lessor's liability under this Agreement in respect of a breach of any such implied term is limited, at Lessor's option, to the repair or replacement of the goods or the hire of equivalent goods to Lessee, or payment to Lessee of the cost of repairing or replacing the goods or hiring equivalent goods to Lessee.


|9.	END OF LEASE
9.1  	Return of Equipment and Return Conditions. Lessee may, by notifying the Lessor in writing ninety days (90) prior to the expiration of the Original Term or any Extended Term of a Lease, return the Equipment provided Lessee is not then in default and the return conditions in this clause have been met. Return conditions include the following. (i ) At least ninety (90) days prior to expiration of the Lease and at the Lessor's request, cause manufacturer's representative or qualified maintenance provider acceptable to us, to perform a comprehensive physical inspection including testing all material and workmanship of the Equipment; and repair or replace any defective material to the Lessor's satisfaction.; (ii )at the expiration of the Original Term or any Extended Term, or upon receiving reasonable notice from us, provide to us the following documents: (A) one set of Equipment service manuals and operating manuals including replacements and/or additions thereto, such that all documentation is completely up-to-date and (B) one set of documents, detailing Equipment configuration, operating requirements maintenance records, and other technical data concerning the set-up and operation of the Equipment, including replacements and/or additions thereto, such that all documentation is completely up-to-date; (iii) properly remove all information and software from storage discs and other memory devices that are not necessary for the installation, operation, maintenance or repair of the Equipment; (iv) de - install, pack and transport equipment in accordance with manufacturers specifications to a location of the Lessor's choosing. In lieu of returning the Equipment, Lessee may, upon thirty (30) days prior written notice to Lessor, return "Like Equipment", defined as equipment (a) which is manufactured by the same manufacturer as the Equipment; (b) with the identical manufacturer type and model as the Equipment, with all engineering changes incorporated as specified by the manufacturer; (c) with an equal or greater market value as the Equipment replaced by the Like Equipment; and (d) which meets all requirements for returned Equipment condition set forth in this clause.
9.2 	Renewal. Lessee may, upon at least thirty days (30) prior written notice to Lessor, renew the Lease provided Lessee is not then in default. Lessor shall offer an Extended Term for ninety (90) day periods (each, an "Extended Term"), but may, if requested, offer different Extended Terms. For Equipment with a fair market value end-of-Lease renewal option, the renewal Rent shall be the projected fair market rental value of the Equipment as of the commencement of such renewal Term. For Equipment with a prestated end-of-Lease renewal option, the renewal Rent shall be stated in the Schedule and such renewal Rent payments will be quarterly and payable in advance. 
9.3 	 Automatic Extension. If, at the expiration of the Term, Lessee has not elected to renew the Lease or return the Equipment in accordance with Section 9.1 or 9.2, and as long as Lessee is not in default under the Lease, the Lease will be automatically extended for each unreturned item of Equipment unless (a) Lessee notifies Lessor in writing, ninety (90) days prior to the end of the Original Term or, thirty (30) days prior to the end of any Extended Term that Lessee does not want the automatic extension and shall promptly elect to purchase or retun the Equipment, or (b) the Equipment is returned to and received by Lessor within fourteen (14) days after the expiration of the Term. The extension will be under the same terms and conditions then in effect, including current Rent but not less than fair market rental value as determined by Lessor at the expiration of the Term and will continue on a day-to-day basis until the earlier of termination by either party upon one (1) month prior written notice, or six (6) years after expiration of the Original Term. For purposes of this Paragraph, current Rent shall be calculated as the sum of the Lease payments over the Original Term divided by the number of months in the Original Term of the Lease. 
10.	FINANCING 
10.1 	Financing. Any one-time charge (indicated on the Schedule as the "Amount Financed") for a Financed Item will be paid by Lessor to Lessee's Supplier or directly to Lessee. Any other charges which may be owed or due to Lessee's Supplier shall be paid directly to Supplier by Lessee. Lessee's obligation to pay Rent for the Financed Item shall not be affected by any discontinuance, return or destruction of any Financed Item on or after the date Lessor make funds available. If Lessee rejects or discontinues any of the Financed Items in accordance with the terms of the applicable agreement with Lessee's Supplier prior to the date Lessor make funds available, then the Financing Transaction with respect to the affected one-time charge shall be cancelled.
10.2. 	Prepayment. Lessee may terminate a Lease or Financing Transaction by paying all outstanding Rent, prepaying its remaining Rent and returning the Equipment to Lessor in good condition. Lessee shall provide Lessor with at least one (1) month prior written notice of the intended prepayment date. Lessor may, depending on market conditions at the time, reduce the remaining Rent to reflect such prepayment and shall advise Lessee of the balance to be paid. If a Lease is terminated, Lessee shall at the same time prepay any related line items of Financing Transactions.

11.	DEFAULT AND REMEDIES
11.1	Events of Default. The occurrence of any of the following shall constitute an "Event of Default" hereunder and under each Lease: (a) Lessee fails to pay any Rent or other amount due under any Lease within five days after it becomes due and payable; (b) Lessee fails to perform any other term or condition to be performed by it under any Lease, and such failure continues for a period of 20 days after such breach; (c) any representation or warranty of Lessee made in any Lease Document proves to have been incorrect in any material respect at the time made, and if curable, such incorrectness continues un-remedied for a period of 20 days after written notice thereof by Lessor; (d) bankruptcy, receivership, insolvency, reorganization, dissolution, liquidation or other similar proceedings are instituted by or against Lessee, any guarantor of any Lease or any partner of a partnership Lessee or guarantor, or all or any part of such person's property, and, if such proceeding is brought against such person, it consents thereto or fails to cause the same to be discharged within 60 days after it is filed; (e) Lessee defaults under any other agreement with Lessor or Lessor's Parent, Subsidiary, or Affiliate (as defined but in relation to Lessor); (f) Lessee sells or transfers all or substantially all of its assets, or any substantial portion of its assets out of the ordinary course of business; (g) Lessee merges or consolidates with or into any person, other than mergers where the Lessee is the surviving entity; or (h) a Material Adverse Effect shall have occurred.
11.2	Remedies. Upon the occurrence of any Event of Default and at any time thereafter so long as such default has not been cured to Lessor's satisfaction, Lessor, at its option, may exercise any one or more of the following remedies: (a) proceed, by court action in law or at equity, to enforce performance by Lessee of the applicable covenants of any or all of the Leases; (b) cancel any or all Leases by notice to Lessee; (c) declare all Rent payments and other sums due and to become due under any or all Leases and Financing Transactions immediately due and payable; (d) require Lessee to return immediately all Equipment under any or all Leases; (e) with notice and process of law take possession of any or all of the Equipment and, for such purpose, enter upon any premises where the Equipment is located and remove the same, all without liability accruing to Lessor for or by any reason of such entry or taking of possession or removing whether for the restoration of damage to property caused by such action or otherwise, or require Lessee to assemble the Equipment and deliver it to Lessor in accordance with Section 2.4; (f) sell or lease any or all of the Equipment, through public or private sale or lease transactions, and apply the proceeds thereof to Lessee's obligations under such Leases; (g) recover any and all direct and indirect, incidental and consequential damages, including, without limitation, (i) all accrued and unpaid Rent as of the date of Lessor's cancellation of the Lease, (ii) an amount equal to the present value, discounted at the Discount Rate (as defined below), of the sum of all Rent and other payments remaining to be paid under such Lease through the Lease Term plus, in the event of an FMV Lease, an amount equal to the Fair Market Value (as defined below) as of the date of Lessor's cancellation of the Lease of each item of Equipment not returned to Lessor, (iii) and other amounts owing under any Lease including interest calculated on daily balances on all amounts due and owing at a rate ("Default Rate") equal to 3% per annum above the prime floating rate last published by Rabobank Limited, its successors and assigns. If there is no such rate published in the previous month the rate is to be 3% per annum above Lessor's cost of funding that amount, all charges, costs, expenses and reasonable attorney's fees incurred by Lessor in retaking possession of, and removing, storing, repairing, refurbishing and selling or leasing such Equipment and enforcing any obligations of Lessee pursuant to any Lease (including without limitation the enforcement of claims in any insolvency proceedings by or against Lessee); and (h) pursue every other right, power or remedy permitted by applicable law. Each right and remedy granted to Lessor under any Lease shall be cumulative and in addition to any other right or remedy existing in equity, at law, by virtue of statute or otherwise, and may be exercised by Lessor from time to time concurrently or independently and as often and in such order as Lessor may elect. Any failure or delay on the part of Lessor in exercising any such right or remedy shall not operate as a waiver thereof. The "Discount Rate" shall be the bank overdraft reference rate published by Rabobank Limited prior to the date of cancellation of the Lease or Financing Transaction.  An "FMV Lease" is lease which gives the Lessee an option to purchase the leased equipment at the Fair Market Value at the end of the lease term. "Fair Market Value" means the price of the Equipment as determined by Lessor through commercially reasonable means. 


12.	GUARANTEE AND INDEMNITY
12.1	Extent of guarantor's obligations. By signing the signature page, the person(s) named below as guarantor(s) and if there is more than one, each of them separately and every two or more of them jointly (collectively "Guarantor") acknowledges that the Guarantor could become liable to pay us: under the guarantee in Section 12.2, under the indemnity in Section 12.3, costs and other expenses under Section12.4 and interest under Section 12.5, if that clause applies. The Guarantor acknowledges that Lessor enters into this Agreement and each Lease Document in reliance on this guarantee and indemnity from the Guarantor.
12.2	Guarantee. In consideration of Lessor agreeing to enter into this Agreement and each Lease Document with Lessee, the Guarantor guarantees that Lessee will pay Lessor all amounts payable under each Lease Document when they are due. This guarantee continues until all these amounts have been paid in full. If Lessor asks, the Guarantor must pay Lessor any amount which Lessee does not pay Lessor when it is due under the relevant Lease Document. Lessor need not ask Lessee first to pay Lessor.
12.3	Indemnity. The Guarantor indemnifies Lessor against, and the Guarantor must therefore pay Lessor for, loss or costs Lessor suffers or incurs if: Lessee does not, is not obliged to, or is unable to, pay Lessor in accordance with a Lease Document; or the Guarantor is not obliged to pay Lessor an amount under Section 12.2; or Lessor is obliged or agrees to pay an amount to a trustee in bankruptcy or liquidator in connection with a payment by the Guarantor or Lessee. The indemnity in this Section 12.3 is a continuing obligation, separate and independent from the Guarantor's other obligations under this guarantee and indemnity. It continues after those other obligations end.
12.4	Our costs and other expenses. The Guarantor must pay Lessor for: its reasonable costs in arranging, administering (including enforcing or taking any other action in connection with its rights) and terminating this guarantee and indemnity; and all stamp and other duties, fees, taxes and charges payable in connection with this guarantee and indemnity and any transaction (such as a payment or receipt) under it, and any interest, penalties, fines and expenses in connection with them. The indemnity in this Section 12.4 for taxes includes any amount which Lessor is obliged to pay to another person to enable that other person to pay a tax.
12.5	Interest. The Guarantor must pay interest calculated on daily balances on any amount the Guarantor owes under Sections 12.2 or 12.3 from the date Lessor asks the Guarantor for the amount until the Guarantor pays it. This interest is to be calculated and is payable in accordance with Section 11.2
12.6	Reinstatement of rights. The Guarantor acknowledges that a trustee in bankruptcy, liquidator or similar person may ask Lessor to refund a payment it has received in connection with any Lease Document or this guarantee and indemnity. To the extent Lessor is obliged to, or agrees to, make a refund, Lessor may treat the original payment as if it had not been made. Lessor is then entitled to its rights against the Guarantor under this guarantee and indemnity as if the payment had never been made.
12.7	Lessor's rights are protected. Rights given to Lessor under this guarantee and indemnity and the Guarantor's liabilities under it are not affected by any act or omission by Lessor or by anything else that might otherwise affect them under law relating to guarantees and indemnities including that the Guarantor may not be aware of the terms of any particular Lease Document. This guarantee and indemnity does not merge with or adversely affect: any other guarantee or indemnity, or mortgage, charge or other security, or right or remedy to which Lessor is entitled at any time; or a judgment or order which Lessor obtains against the Guarantor in respect of an amount payable under this guarantee and indemnity in respect of any Lease Document. Lessor can still exercise its rights under this guarantee and indemnity as well as under the judgment, order, other guarantee or security.
12.8	Guarantor's rights are suspended. As long as an amount payable under any Lease Document remains unpaid, the Guarantor may not, without Lessor's consent: reduce the Guarantor's liability under this guarantee and indemnity by claiming that the Guarantor or Lessee or any other person has a right of set-off or counterclaim against Lessor; or exercise any legal rights to claim to be entitled to the benefit of another guarantee or mortgage, charge or other security given in connection with an amount payable under any Lease Document or an amount payable under this guarantee and indemnity; or claim an amount from Lessee or another guarantor of Lessee's obligations under a right of indemnity; or claim an amount in the insolvency of Lessee or another guarantor of Lessee's obligations under any Lease Document (including a person(s) who has signed this guarantee and indemnity).

12.9	The Guarantor's acknowledgements. The Guarantor acknowledges that the Guarantor is responsible for making itself aware of the financial position of Lessee and any other person who guarantees Lessee's obligations under this guarantee and indemnity. The Guarantor declares that it does not enter into this Agreement or any Lease Document, as a trustee, unless the Guarantor has told Lessor otherwise in writing. If the Guarantor is a trustee, Annexure A to this Agreement applies equally to the Guarantor. 
12.10	General. The Guarantor must pay any amount payable to Lessor under this guarantee and indemnity on the date Lessor specifies. The Guarantor must promptly do anything Lessor asks (such as obtaining consents, signing and producing documents and getting documents completed and signed) to bind itself under this guarantee and indemnity. Lessor may claim against the Guarantor under this guarantee and indemnity before it enforces any of its rights: 	against Lessee or any other person; or b)	under another document such as a guarantee or mortgage, charge or other security. Lessor may use any money paid by or for Lessee towards meeting any part Lessor chooses of the amounts Lessee owes Lessor (including meeting any amount the Guarantor does not guarantee). Lessor may use any money paid by the Guarantor under this guarantee and indemnity towards paying any part Lessor chooses of the amounts the guarantor owes Lessor under this guarantee and indemnity. Lessor may place in a suspense account any payments Lessor receives from the Guarantor for as long as Lessor thinks prudent.
13.	MISCELLANEOUS 
13.1	Assignment. LESSEE SHALL NOT ASSIGN ITS RIGHTS OR OBLIGATIONS, SUBLET THE EQUIPMENT OR OTHERWISE PERMIT THE EQUIPMENT TO BE OPERATED OR USED BY, OR TO COME INTO THE POSSESSION OF, ANYONE BUT LESSEE. Lessor may assign or transfer any or all of Lessor's interest in this Agreement, any Lease or Financing Transaction, any Equipment or Rents, without notice to Lessee. Any assignee of Lessor shall have all of the rights, but none of the obligations (unless otherwise provided in the applicable assignment), of a "Lessor" under this Agreement and the applicable Lease or Financing Transaction, and Lessee agrees that it will not assert against any assignee any defense, counterclaim or offset that Lessee may have against Lessor or, and that upon notice of such assignment or transfer, it will pay all Rent and other sums due under this Agreement and the applicable Lease or Financing Transaction to such assignee or transferee. Any assignment or transfer by Lessor shall not relieve Lessor of its obligations to Lessee, or materially change Lessee's duties or materially increase the burdens or risks imposed on Lessee.
13.2	Further Assurances. Upon the request of Lessor from time to time, Lessee shall execute and deliver such further documents and do such further acts as Lessor may reasonably request in order to give effect to the purposes of this Agreement or any Lease or Financing Transaction. 
13.3	Notices. Any notice, request, demand, consent, approval or other communication provided for or permitted in relation to any Lease or Financing Transaction shall be in writing and shall be conclusively deemed to have been received by a party hereto on the day it is delivered to such party at its address, or received by the party at such facsimile number, as is set forth in such Schedule (or at such other addresses or fax numbers such party shall specify to the other party in writing), or if sent by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, on the fifth day after the day on which it is mailed, postage prepaid, addressed to such party. All notices from Lessee to Lessor shall be directed to the attention of the Director of Operations at the address specified in the Schedule.
13.4	Section Headings; Interpretation. Section headings are inserted for convenience of reference only and shall not affect any construction or interpretation of any Lease Document. In interpreting the provisions of any Lease Document, (a) the term "including" is not limiting; (b) references to "person" include individuals, corporations and other legal persons and entities; (c) the singular of defined terms includes the plural and vice-versa; and (d) section and paragraph references are to the document in which such reference appears, unless the context otherwise requires.
13.5	Entire Agreement. This Agreement, together with the other Lease Documents, constitute the entire agreement between Lessor and Lessee with respect to the lease of the Equipment and supersede all other oral or written agreements or understandings of the parties including, without limitation, purchase orders. No waiver or amendment of, or any consent with respect to, any provision of any Lease Document shall bind either party unless set forth in a writing signed by both parties. 


13.6	Severability. Should any provision of any Lease Document be or become invalid, illegal, or unenforceable under applicable law, the other provisions of such Lease Document shall not be affected and shall remain in full force and effect. 
13.7	Governing Law and Jurisdiction. This Agreement and other Lease Documents shall be governed by the laws of New South Wales. Lessee consents to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of Republic of China, and the courts sitting in New South Wales, for the resolution of any disputes under any Lease Document. 
13.8	Survival. All agreements, obligations of Lessee, including but not limited to those arising under Section 5.3 or 7 hereof, representations and warranties contained in a Lease Document, and all rights of Lessor hereunder with respect to a Lease, shall survive the cancellation of such Lease and the return of the Equipment.
13.9	Grant of Security Interest. Notwithstanding the express intent of the parties as set forth in Section 1.2, if a court of competent jurisdiction determines that any Lease is not a true lease, then, to secure the payment and performance by Lessee of all obligations under each Lease, Lessee hereby grants to Lessor a first priority security interest in Lessee's right, title and interest, now existing and hereafter arising, in and to, (a) all Equipment subject to such Lease, including all additions, attachments, accessions and replacements thereto, and (b) all products and proceeds of the foregoing, including, without limitation, all insurance, warranty, rental and other claims and rights to payment and chattel paper arising out of such Equipment (the "Collateral"). 
13.10	Counterparts. Each Lease Document may be executed in counterparts, and when so executed each counterpart shall be deemed to be an original, and such counterparts together shall constitute one and the same instrument. If there exist multiple counterparts a Schedule, one shall be marked "Lessor's Copy" and shall constitute the only chattel paper and all other counterparts shall be marked "Duplicate.".
13.11	Authorised signatories. Lessee represent and warrant that each authorised officer whose signature appears below under the heading "Specimen signatures of authorised officers" is authorised to sign a Schedule on Lessee's behalf. If the authorised officers change Lessee must notify Lessor and provide Lessee with specimen signatures of any new authorised officer. Lessor is entitled to assume that any Schedule signed by any of Lessee's authorised officers has been duly authorised by Lessee and that each Lease Document is valid and binding on Lessee.



Each person signing below on behalf of Lessee represents and warrants that he or she is authorised to execute and deliver this Agreement on behalf of Lessee. This Agreement is executed as of the last signature date below.
LESSOR:
CISCO SYSTEMS CAPITAL AUSTRALIA LIMITED
By: 	                                                                 	
	(Authorised Signature)
      (Name/Title)
      (Date)LESSEE:
[	                                                                                	]
By: 	                                                                   	
	(Authorised Signature)
      (Name/Title)
      (Date)
GUARANTOR:
[NAME & ABN]
By: 	                                                                 	
	(Authorised Signature)
      (Name/Title)
      (Date)
SPECIMEN SIGNATURES OF AUTHORISED OFFICERS
Below are the signatures of each authorised officer of Lessee who is authorised to sign and deliver a Schedule for Lessee.
NamePositionSignature     
     

     
     





ANNEXURE A: TRUSTEES
This is Annexure A to the Master Lease Agreement between Cisco Systems Capital (Australia) Pty. Ltd. and 
[Name of Lessee]
As Lessee or the Guarantor is the trustee (in this clause "the Trustee") of a trust, the Trustee confirms that: a) the Trustee is the only trustee of the trust and can sign this Agreement or the guarantee and indemnity; and b) the Trustee has signed this Agreement or the guarantee and indemnity with the consent of all of the beneficiaries and for the benefit of all of the beneficiaries; and c) the Trustee has the right to be indemnified out of the trust fund for all obligations it incurs under this Lease or the guarantee and indemnity; and d) no action has been taken or proposed to remove the Trustee as trustee of the trust; and e) and the Trustee has given Lessor true (ie complete and up-to-date) copies of the relevant trust deed and other documents relating to the trust; and f) the Trustee has complied with the trust deed; and g) no action has been taken or proposed to terminate the trust. 
As trustee the Trustee agrees: a) to do everything necessary to bind the Trustee and its successors to this Lease or the guarantee and indemnity; and b) to comply with the Trustee's obligations as trustee. As trustee, the Trustee must ensure that, without Lessor's consent: a) the Trustee will not retire, cease to act or be removed; and b) the trust is not terminated; and c) the trust deed is not changed; and d) the trust fund is not mixed with other property. As trustee the Trustee indemnifies Lessor against any loss, costs, charges and expenses (including legal fees and expenses on a full indemnity basis) incurred in connection with the Trustee not observing any of its obligations under this Lease or in connection with any statement in this annexure being inaccurate.
CORPORATE TRUSTEE:
Executed by       (Name of Trustee)  ACN [       ] as trustee for       (Name of trust) in accordance with section 127(1) of the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth):
_______________________________________________
Signature of director 
________________________________________________
Signature of director or company secretary*                           *delete whichever does not apply
     
Name (please print)
     
Name (please print)
INDIVIDUAL TRUSTEE:
Executed by       (Name of Trustee) as trustee for       (Name of trust) in the presence of:
_______________________________________________
Signature of witness
_______________________________________________
Signature
     
Name of witness (please print)
(Instructions to complete: Delete or add alteration clauses if necessary)




7


1






ERROR! UNKNOWN DOCUMENT PROPERTY NAME.
ERROR! UNKNOWN DOCUMENT PROPERTY NAME.





