


DATED                                    2005







COMMONWEALTH BANK OF AUSTRALIA
ABN 48 123 123 124



AND



<DEPARTMENT>










AGREEMENT








J K O'SULLIVAN
General Counsel
11th Floor
Bank House
309 George Street
SYDNEY  NSW  2000

DX  1440  SYDNEY

Telephone: (02) 9378 2251
Facsimile (02) 9378 4766
Ref:  CJM


THIS AGREEMENT is made on the                     day of                                         2005

BETWEEN

COMMONWEALTH BANK OF AUSTRALIA ABN 48 123 123 124 of 48 Martin Place, Sydney ("the Bank")

AND

<DEPARTMENT>. of <registered address for the DEPARTMENT>


RECITALS

A. The Bank and the State of Victoria are parties to a Corporate Card and Purchasing Card Agreement dated October 2004 (the "Agreement") under which employees of <DEPARTMENT> can apply for Corporate Cards under a facility provided by the Bank to <DEPARTMENT>.
B. <DEPARTMENT> has requested that the Bank accept details relating to new Cardholders from <DEPARTMENT> sent by way of electronic mail.
C. The Bank has agreed to <DEPARTMENT>'s request on the terms of this agreement.
AGREEMENT

The parties agree as follows:
Definitions
Business Day means a weekday (other than a public holiday, special holiday, or bank holiday) upon which banks are open for business in Australia.
Cardholder means an individual resident in Australia (and such other countries as may be agreed in writing from time to time by the Bank and <DEPARTMENT>) and designated in writing by <DEPARTMENT> as authorised to use a Corporate Card in relation to a Cardholder Account.
Cardholder Account means an account established by the Bank on behalf of <DEPARTMENT> in respect of a Cardholder and referred to as the Card Account in the Conditions of Use.
 Purchasing Card - Agreement and Acknowledgement by Cardholder means the Victorian Government's minimum standard Cardholder Undertaking form for the issue of a Corporate Card in the name of an employee. 
Conditions of Use means the Bank's general terms and conditions which apply to all MasterCard Corporate Cards issued by the Bank from time to time.
Corporate Card means Corporate Cards issued by the Bank to Cardholders pursuant to the State of Victoria Corporate Card and Purchasing Card Agreement. 

1. 
<DEPARTMENT> authorises the Bank to accept e-mail and/or fax instructions to:
(a) issue Corporate Cards to Cardholders under the Agreement,
(b) change a Cardholder's name,
(c) change a Cardholder's contact and address details,
(d) change a Cardholder's limit,
(e) change a Cardholder's merchant category blocking code,
(f) change a Cardholder's hierarchy level,
(g) reissue a replacement Corporate Card,
(h) cancel a Corporate Card,
(i) action a Disputed Item Investigation Request
when those instructions purport to be sent by the persons nominated in Schedule 1; and
       
2. to credit and debit to <DEPARTMENT>'s Corporate Card account all amounts contemplated under this agreement.

3. Without limiting clause 1 in any way, <DEPARTMENT> authorises the Bank to make debits and credits to <DEPARTMENT>'s account as and when necessary to effect payments, refunds, corrections and valid claims from Cardholders.

4. <DEPARTMENT> agrees that it must do all acts, including without limitation executing any documents and other instruments, and give any consents necessary to give effect to the authorisations in clause 2.

5. <DEPARTMENT> may not give the Bank any instruction or direction, whether concerning the operation of their account or otherwise, which is inconsistent with any authorisation or other provision of this agreement, and the Bank is entitled to disregard any such inconsistent instruction or direction.

6. The Bank will process Cardholder New Account Applications upon receipt of e-mail instructions from <DEPARTMENT>.

7. <DEPARTMENT> must:

(a)	ensure that all Purchasing Card - Agreement and Acknowledgement by Cardholder forms are completed in accordance with the Bank's requirements set out in Schedule 2.

	(b)	ensure that all Cardholders are properly identified in accordance with the requirements of any law requiring Cardholders or accountholders or signatories to accounts to be identified;
(c)	comply with all laws relating to Cardholders' privacy and in so far as it applies to actions of <DEPARTMENT>, Cardholders' operation and use of Cards;
(d)	provide Cardholders with the Conditions of Use;
(e)	ensure that all Cards requested by it under this agreement are for business use and are not used for personal credit;
	(e)	give the Bank any information it requests concerning Purchasing Card - Agreement and Acknowledgement by Cardholder; and

	

(f)	ensure that it:

		(i)	has and maintains adequate procedures and systems for storing and promptly retrieving Purchasing Card - Agreement and Acknowledgement by Cardholder files and identification documentation;

		(ii)	maintain in a manner approved by the Bank the original records of each Cardholder New Account Application.

7.	<DEPARTMENT> undertakes to:

	(a)	inform Cardholders, in a manner which is not misleading, how they may use the Card; and

	(b)	only provide to Cardholders literature or promotional materials provided or approved in advance by the Bank for the above purposes; 

8. <DEPARTMENT> acknowledges that delay might occur in the processing of e-mail instructions sent to the Bank under this agreement where:

	(a)	there is a public or bank holiday on the day or on the day after the e-mail is sent to the Bank;

	(b)	an e-mail instruction is received either on a day which is not a Banking Business Day or after the normal close of business on a Banking Business Day;

	(c)	<DEPARTMENT> fails to comply with its obligations under the Agreement or this agreement.

9. While it is expected that any delay in the Bank's performance under this agreement for any reason set out in clause 8 will not continue for more than one Banking Business Day, <DEPARTMENT> acknowledges that any such delay may continue for a longer period.

10. The Bank will not be in breach of this agreement merely because of a delay of the kind referred to in clauses 8 or 9 and will not be liable to <DEPARTMENT> for any such delay.

11. Any of the following acts or omissions will constitute default under this agreement:

	(a)	if either party fails to observe or perform this agreement or a party suspects on reasonable grounds that the other party has committed or will commit a fraudulent act in connection with this agreement and such default (where remediable) is not remedied within 3 Banking Business Days after notice of the failure to observe or perform has been given by the party alleging default.

12. Termination of this agreement will not relieve either party of its obligations incurred prior to that termination 

13. On termination of this agreement, the Bank shall no longer be obliged to accept details relating to new Cardholders from <DEPARTMENT> sent by way of electronic mail.

14. <DEPARTMENT> represents and warrants to the Bank that it has all necessary power and authority to enter into this agreement and to perform its obligations under it.

15. <DEPARTMENT> will treat as confidential and will not discuss any information which comes into its possession as a result of any aspect of this agreement.

16. A provision or a right created under this agreement cannot be waived except in writing signed by the party granting the waiver.

17. The parties agree that if there is any inconsistency between the terms of this agreement and the Agreement, the terms of the Agreement will prevail to the extent of any inconsistency.


COMMONWEALTH BANK OF
AUSTRALIA ACN 123 123 124
by its duly constituted attorney)))   )in the presence of:)Signature of AttorneyWitness


SIGNED for and on behalf of
<DEPARTMENT>
by
its attorney under power of attorney dated
                  in the presence of:))))Attorney)Signature of witnessName of witness


Schedule 1
[List of persons authorised to send instructions by e-mail and/or fax]

Facility Number5550 

Namee-mail addressSignature









Schedule 2
Purchasing Card - Agreement and Acknowledgement by Cardholder Documentation



5450r

SB215622 18-Mar-05 16:49:00

7.






SB215622 18-Mar-05 16:49:00

