This Agreement is made on the 	day of	200    , between
                                            ,                                                     and                                             
[Names of Registered Claimants] on behalf of the Applicants in the [     ] Native Title Determination Application [s] WAG [      ] of  [     ] ("the NTP")

and

[Grantee Party] ("the Miner")
WHEREAS:
A. The Miner has applied for exploration/prospecting/retention licence number/s [       ] ("the Licence") which is/are subject to the terms of this Agreement.
B. The Licence Area is located within the area of the Claim.
C. The NTP is authorised by the Claimants to enter into this Agreement on their behalf.
D. The Council is the Native Title Representative Body recognised under the Native Title Act in respect of the area covered by the Claim.  The Council has been authorised by the NTP to act as its agent in the administration of this Agreement.
E. The Miner proposes to undertake Activities on the Licence Area.
F. The Miner recognises that there may be Aboriginal Sites, and that these sites are subject to the provisions of the Heritage Act and the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Heritage Protection Act 1984 (Cth).
G. The Parties recognise that the terms of this Agreement are designed to ensure that the grant of the Licence, and the exercise by the Miner of its rights under the Licence will not be likely to directly interfere with the community life of the NTP; to avoid or minimise damage, disturbance or interfere with Aboriginal Sites.
H. The Parties have agreed that they will conduct Surveys using the process and lines of communication established by this Agreement.
IT IS THEREFORE AGREED:
1. INTERPRETATION
1.1 In this Agreement, unless the contrary intention appears:
"Aboriginal Cultural Material Committee" means the same as in the Heritage Act or the committee from time to time performing its functions at the Commencement Date.
"Aboriginal Site" means an 'Aboriginal site' as defined in the Heritage Act or a 'significant Aboriginal area' as defined in the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Heritage Protection Act 1984 (Cth) or an 'area or site of particular significance' within the meaning of section 237(b) of the Native Title Act.
"Activity" includes both Non Ground Disturbing Activity and Ground Disturbing Activity pursuant to the Licence on the Licence Area.
"Anthropologist" means an anthropologist appointed pursuant to sub-clause 7.5.
"Calendar Quarter" means a period of 3 months commencing on 1 January, 1 April, 1 July or 1 October in any year.
"Claim" means Native Title Determination Application[s] [XXXXXXX insert details XXXXXX ].
"Claimants" means the native title claim group referred to in section 61 of the Native Title Act in respect of the Claim.
"Commencement Date" means the date on which this Agreement has been executed by both Parties.
"Council" refers to the Ngaanyatjarra Council (Aboriginal Corporation), the Native Title Representative Body, determined in accordance with the Native Title Act, with responsibility for the area covered by the Claim.
"CPI" means, in respect of a Calendar Quarter, the Consumer Price Index Groups index number for the weighted average of 8 capital cities published by the Australian Bureau of Statistics (excluding the GST impact) under catalogue number 6401.0 for that Calendar Quarter.
"Department" means the Department of Indigenous Affairs of the Government of Western Australia or the Department from time to time performing the functions of that Department at the Commencement Date.
"Department of Industry and Resources" means the Department of Industry and Resources of the Government of Western Australia or the Department from time to time performing the functions of that Department at the Commencement Date. 
"Ground Disturbing Activity" includes, but is not limited to, drilling (including drilling on existing tracks), digging (with mechanised equipment), blasting, earthmoving, vegetation clearance, grading, gravel extraction, construction of new or widening of existing roads and tracks.  For the avoidance of doubt, it does not include the matters listed in paragraphs (a) to (c) of the definition of "Non Ground Disturbing Activity".
"GST" means the same as in A New Tax System (Goods and Services Tax) Act 1999 (Cth).
"Heritage Act" means the Aboriginal Heritage Act 1972 (WA).
"Licence" means the Licence/s applied for by the Miner and/or granted under the Mining Act 1978 (WA) as listed in Recital A.
"Licence Area" means that part of the area of the Licence that is within the Area of the Claim.
"Native Title Act" means the Native Title Act 1993 (Cth).
"Native Title Representative Body" has the same meaning as in the Native Title Act.
"Non Ground Disturbing Activity" means any Activity relating to the Licence Area that is not Ground Disturbing Activity. It includes:
(a) the use of hand tools for sampling purposes including water and soil sampling;
(b) geophysical surveying; and
(c) the establishing of tent or caravan camps not involving heavy vehicles or water bores.
"NTP" includes the NTP acting through its duly appointed agent from time to time.
"Objection" includes any objection:
(a) under section 32(3) and (4) of the Native Title Act to the expedited procedure applying to the proposed grant of the Licence; or
(b) to the grant of the Licence under the provisions of the Mining Act 1978 (WA).
	"Parties" means the Miner and the NTP.
"Personnel" includes agents of the Miner, employees, contractors or sub-contractors.
"Report" means the Report referred to in clause 8.
"Survey" means an ethnographic and/or archaeological survey of the Work Areas identified in the Work Program, to determine whether there are any Aboriginal Sites within the Work Areas that could be damaged, destroyed or interfered with by the conduct of Ground Disturbing Activity in the Work Areas.
"Survey Notice" means a notice containing the information described in Attachment 2.
"Survey Team" means the survey team referred to in sub-clause 7.5. 
"Traditional Owners" means those Aboriginal people who, in accordance with Aboriginal laws and customs, have been entrusted with the responsibility and authority for Aboriginal Sites.
"Work Area" means the area within which the Miner proposes to carry out Ground Disturbing Activity pursuant to the Work Program provided pursuant to sub-clause 6.2.
"Work Program" means the program of proposed Ground Disturbing Activities prepared by the Miner and delivered to the NTP for assessment pursuant to sub-clause 6.2.
1.2 In this Agreement, unless the contrary intention appears:
(a) a reference to any statute shall include any amendment, replacement or re-enactment thereof for the time being in force and any by-laws, statutory instruments, rules, regulations, notices, orders, directions, consents or permissions made thereunder and any conditions attaching thereto;
(b) the singular includes the plural and vice versa;
(c) a reference to any gender includes all genders;
(d) a reference to a person includes a reference to the person's executors, administrators, substitutes, successors and permitted assigns;
(e) a covenant, representation, or warranty in favour of two or more persons is for the benefit of them jointly and severally; and
(f) a covenant, representation, or warranty on the part of two or more persons binds them jointly and severally.
1.3 The headings in this Agreement shall not affect its interpretation.
2. AGREEMENT TO THE GRANTING OF THE LICENCE
2.1 The NTP agree to withdraw any existing Objection to the grant of the Licence and not make any further Objection to the grant of the Licence, once the Miner has executed this Agreement.
3. NTP'S WARRANTY AS TO EFFECT OF  AGREEMENT
3.1 The NTP warrants that, to the best of its knowledge and information, the people nominated as being the Traditional Owners of land and waters the subject of the Licence Area are those who have the authority to speak for the land and waters the subject of the Licence Area in accordance with the laws and customs of the Claimants.
3.2 A Survey completed in accordance with the terms of this Agreement shall bind all Claimants.
4. IDENTIFICATION OF AN ABORIGINAL SITE
4.1 The Miner shall not enter or carry out any Activity on the land and waters within the Licence Area contrary to this Agreement. Nothing in this Agreement is intended to or will purport to authorise the Miner to commit a breach of the Heritage Act or the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Heritage Protection Act 1984 (Cth).
4.2 The Miner shall immediately report to the NTP the location of any previously unidentified potential Aboriginal Site of which it becomes aware during the course of conducting Activity within the Licence Area.
5. NOTIFICATION OF INTENTION TO UNDERTAKE NON GROUND DISTURBING ACTIVITY
5.1 In order to keep the Claimants informed of the Miner's Non Ground Disturbing Activity, the Miner shall notify the NTP of the following information in relation to areas within the Licence Area that have not been the subject of a Survey in accordance with this Agreement:
(a) a 1:250,000 topographic map showing where the Non Ground Disturbing Activity is to take place;
(b) the nature of the Non Ground Disturbing Activity to be carried out on the Licence Area including the techniques, and types of equipment and vehicles to be used;
(c) the estimated time of the Non Ground Disturbing Activity; and 
(d) the approximate proposed number of Personnel.
5.2 The notification may be given either annually or at least 21 days prior to the Non Ground Disturbing Activity being undertaken.
5.3 Should the NTP reasonably consider that the Activity outlined in the notification, pursuant to sub-clause 5.1, is not Non Ground Disturbing Activity or is inconsistent with sub-clause 4.1 then the Parties will meet to endeavour to resolve the matter.
6. NOTIFICATION OF INTENTION TO UNDERTAKE GROUND DISTURBING ACTIVITY
6.1 In the event that the Miner intends to carry out Ground Disturbing Activity on the Licence Area, the Miner shall notify the NTP prior to the commencement of the Ground Disturbing Activity.
6.2 Where the land concerned has not been the subject of a Survey under this Agreement, the Miner shall provide to the NTP a Work Program containing at least the following information:
(a) 1:2500,000 topographic map (2 copies) and 1:50,000 topographic map or similar scale aerial photograph (2 copies) showing the Work Areas;
(b) the nature, scope, objectives and estimated time of the Ground Disturbing Activity to be carried out on the Licence Area;
(c) all vehicular access routes, including airstrips;
(d) the techniques and types of infrastructure, items of equipment and vehicles to be used;
(e) any water, biological or other materials or resources proposed to be obtained from the Licence Area;
(f) the approximate number of Personnel who will be involved in conducting the Ground Disturbing Activity;
(g) any requirement to restrict access by the Claimants to the area and, if so, the nature and extent of that restriction; and
(h) whether the Miner requires, should a Survey be required, the Report to include the information in items 4(b) to (f) (inclusive) of Attachment 1.
7. SURVEY
7.1 After the Miner delivers a Work Program the Parties will consult with each other to determine whether a Survey is required.
7.2 For the purposes of consultations between the Parties under this clause:
(a) Factors which will be taken into account by the NTP (in consultation with the Traditional Owners) and the Miner in determining whether a Survey should take place include:
(i) whether there have been any previous surveys, the results and methodology of those surveys and the date, participants, standard and quality of the survey;
(ii) the extent to which the land has been disturbed by previous Activity;
(iii) whether the Register maintained by the Department discloses the existence of any potential Aboriginal Sites on the land;
(iv) the nature of the Ground Disturbing Activity to be conducted; and
(v) any other relevant factor raised by either of the Parties.
(b) The Miner must provide the NTP with a copy of any report containing the results of any survey on which the Miner wants to rely.
7.3 If:
(a) there has been any previous survey over the relevant area (not conducted pursuant to this Agreement) the Parties, having regard to the factors in sub-clause 7.2, determine that a Survey is required; or 
(b) no previous survey has been conducted over the relevant area, the NTP, having considered the factors set out in sub-clause 7.2, reasonably determines that a Survey is required; or 
(c) the Miner requests,
the NTP will use its best endeavours to arrange for the Survey to commence as soon as possible, but in any event, subject to the exclusions in clause 15, within 30 days of the receipt of the Work Program or within 30 days after the later of when:

(d)	the Work Program is provided to the NTP; or

(e)	it is determined that a Survey is required in accordance with paragraphs (a), (b) or (c) of this sub-clause,

or such further period as agreed. The NTP must diligently complete the fieldwork component of the Survey as soon as practicable.
7.4 If the Parties cannot reach agreement, in accordance with sub-clause 7.3(a), either Party may refer the matter to the dispute resolution process in clause 16.
7.5 The Survey Team shall consist of:
(a) subject to sub-clause 7.6, an Anthropologist appointed by the NTP and, if the NTP considers necessary and with the agreement of the Parties, an Anthropologist of the other gender;
(b) subject to sub-clause 7.9(a), such Traditional Owners, determined by the NTP, as necessary to examine and assist in the Survey;
(c) if nominated by the NTP, a Council liaison officer; and 
(d) where potentially significant archaeological material has been identified by the Survey Team and the Parties agree, an archaeologist.
7.6 If the Miner has, on reasonable grounds (which will not include the mere fact that the person is employed by the Council), concerns about the Anthropologist to be appointed pursuant to sub-clause 7.5(a), it may request the NTP to consider another anthropologist to conduct the Survey.  If the Parties do not agree as to who should conduct the Survey, either Party may refer the matter to the President of the National Native Title Tribunal who will choose an anthropologist to conduct the Survey.
7.7 The Miner shall send on the Survey with the Survey Team one or two nominees who have the authority to make amendments to the Work Program if necessary.  The Miner shall ensure that its employee or nominee accompanying the Survey Team is capable of identifying all relevant aspects of the Work Program.  This person/s will respect the privacy of the Traditional Owners when sensitive cultural matters are being discussed.
7.8 Prior to the commencement of the Survey, the NTP shall submit an estimate of costs of the Survey to the Miner for its approval.
7.9 The Miner shall pay the following costs and expenses, connected with the Survey Team, at the following rates:
(a) Traditional Owners' fees at $300 per day per person to a maximum of 6 Traditional Owners (unless otherwise agreed by the Parties);
(b) Food at $30 per day per member of Survey Team and to a maximum of 6 Traditional Owners;
(c) Should Council vehicles be available, then the charge for the use of these vehicles shall be $150 per day per vehicle (or, if Council vehicles are unavailable, then the hire costs of correctly set up vehicles) plus the cost of repairs to any tyres damaged during the Survey or the replacement cost of any tyres damaged beyond repair during the Survey and the direct cost of vehicle fuel used during the Survey.
(d) The Anthropologist's professional costs including travelling time to and from the Survey and report writing at the rate of $600 per day where the Anthropologist is the Council anthropologist, and the rate of $750 per day where a consulting anthropologist is used, together with the costs of any necessary air travel from locations within Australia;
(e) The Anthropologist's reasonable accommodation costs;
(f) The Council liaison officer at $320 per day; and 
(g) Administration costs incurred by the Council, a sum equivalent to 10% of the payments to be made pursuant to sub-clauses 7.9(a) to (f) to a maximum of $650 for each Survey.
7.10 The payment in sub-clause 7.9(a) will be adjusted:
(a) for CPI on each anniversary of the Commencement Date by multiplying the then current payment by a fraction of the denominator of which is the CPI for one year previously and the numerator of which is the then current CPI; and 
(b) each two years from 1 January 2004 and will be the greater of the CPI increase calculated under sub-clause (a) and the prevailing industry standard payment to Aboriginal participants at that time.
7.11 The Parties will meet to review the provisions of sub-clause 7.9 as soon as practicable after the expiry of 2 years after the Commencement Date and every 2 years thereafter while this Agreement remains in force.
7.12 The Survey Team shall examine, on the Licence Area, all the Work Areas as detailed in the Work Program.
8. SURVEY REPORT
8.1 Once the Miner has paid the invoiced costs of the Survey, or within 30 days of completion of the fieldwork component of the Survey whichever is the later, the NTP shall provide the Miner with the Report which will include the information referred to in items 1 to 4 (a) (inclusive) of Attachment 1 and:
(a) a clear indication (using maps) of that part of the Work Area that is cleared or not cleared for Ground Disturbing Activity; or 
(b) where the Miner has so requested in the Work Program, the information in items 4 (b) to (f) (inclusive) of Attachment 1.
8.2 The Miner will provide any comments on the Report to the Anthropologist (and a copy of those comments to the NTP) within 14 days of receipt of the Report.  The Anthropologist will take into consideration any comments made by the Miner and will either amend and then send to the Miner an amended Report or, where no change is made, a reasonable explanation.
8.3 Subject to sub-clause 8.2, the Anthropologist will promptly finalise the Report and provide a copy to each of the Parties.
8.4 At the request of the Miner, the NTP will send a Survey Notice, in respect of the Survey, to the Department.
8.5 The NTP will use reasonable endeavours to complete any Survey, under clause 7, and provide a Report, under clause 8, as soon as is reasonably practicable but in any event within 90 days from receipt of the Work Program.
8.6 Sub-clause 8.5 is subject to:
(a) clause 15; and
(b) the Miner having complied with its obligations under this Agreement including co-operating reasonably in carrying out the Survey.
8.7 Intellectual property rights in the Report remain with the NTP.
9. FURTHER WORK AREAS
9.1 If there is any further Activity that the Miner wishes to conduct, within the Licence Area, which is not in a Work Area that has been the subject of a Survey under this Agreement, then clauses 5, 6, 7 and 8 will apply (as appropriate) to that proposed Activity. For the avoidance of doubt, this Agreement will not require a further Survey to be conducted in relation to a Work Area that has been the subject of a Survey under this Agreement.
10. MINER MUST CONSULT ABOUT SECTION 18 APPLICATION
10.1 The Miner shall not give notice under section 18 of the Heritage Act over any part of the Licence Area without first giving the NTP at least 30 days notice of its intention to do so.
10.2 The Miner must consult with the NTP about any proposal that is the subject of such a notice and will, in that consultation, give consideration to reasonable measures to minimise or mitigate impact on the relevant Aboriginal Sites having regard to the Miner's commercial considerations.
10.3 Prior to the Aboriginal Cultural Material Committee considering such a notice, the Miner must give reasonable notice to the NTP of the detail of its consultation process.
11. EMPLOYEES TO BE NOTIFIED
11.1 The Miner shall inform its Personnel of the Miner's obligation under this Agreement as well as the Heritage Act and the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Heritage Protection Act 1984 (Cth) and the Miner will require its Personnel to comply with the provisions of this Agreement.
12. NO EXTINGUISHMENT OF NATIVE TITLE
12.1 The Miner acknowledges that any native title rights and interests of the Claimants are not extinguished by the grant of the Licence or anything done pursuant to this Agreement.
13. CONFIDENTIALITY
13.1 Subject to this Agreement, the following shall be treated by the Parties as confidential:
(a) the terms and conditions of this Agreement;
(b) all information, including the names of any Aboriginal participants, Reports and maps produced in relation to Surveys and any Aboriginal Sites within the Licence Area; and
(c) all information relating to the Miner's mining activities.
13.2 Any confidential information may be divulged to a third party:
(a) with prior written consent of the Miner and the NTP;
(b) to the extent required by law or any rule of a Stock Exchange;
(c) to the extent required by the Department of Industry and Resources;
(d) where such third party is either:
(i) a bona fide actual or potential direct or indirect assignee of all or part of the Miner's interest in the Licence;
(ii) a recognised financial institution in connection with any financial accommodation sought;
(iii) an independent consultant, contractor or employee of the Miner; or 
(iv) a related body corporate,
provided any disclosure made to a third party under this sub-clause shall be subject to such third party covenanting in writing to be bound by the provisions of this clause;
(e) for the purposes of:

(i)  making an application under section 18 of the Heritage Act or in any other application or proceedings brought under or in accordance with that Act or the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Heritage Protection Act 1984 (Cth)
(ii)  any Act concerning the conduct of Activity within the Licence Area or the granting of mining tenements in relation to any part of the area of the Licence to the Miner; and
(f) to the extent it is already in the public domain, otherwise than by breach of this clause.
13.3 The obligations of the Parties under this clause shall survive the termination of this Agreement.
14. ASSIGNMENT
14.1 By the Miner
Subject to this clause, the Miner may assign (whether by farm-out, joint venture, sale or otherwise) all or part of its right, title and interest in all or any part of the Licence and this Agreement.  The Miner shall ensure that:
(a) it gives the NTP 28 days written notice prior to the assignment; and 
(b) the assignee assumes, to the extent of the assignment, the obligations of the Miner under this Agreement and that evidence of that assumption is provided to the NTP.
14.2 By the Native Title Party
The NTP may not assign its rights under this Agreement except in accordance with this sub-clause 14.2.   The NTP may only assign all or part of its rights under this Agreement where:
(a) a determination has been made under the Native Title Act that native title exists over all or part of the Licence Area and is held by the NTP; and
(b) the assignment is to a Prescribed Body Corporate (as defined in the Native Title Act) that has entered into a deed in favour of the Miner covenanting to be bound by all the provisions of this Agreement and to assume the obligations of the NTP.
15. LAW BUSINESS AND CULTURAL RESPONSIBILITIES
15.1 Delay caused by any of the following matters will be excluded from the 30 day and 90 day periods referred to in sub-clauses 7.3 and 8.5 respectively:
(a) the Law Business period between 15 December and 1 February of each year;
(b) weather and road conditions; and
(c) the bona fide cultural responsibilities (such as funerals) of the Traditional Owners.
15.2 A Party asserting the existence of a delay, to which sub-clause 15.1 applies, must advise the other Party of that delay and take reasonable steps to mitigate that delay.
16. DISPUTE RESOLUTION
16.1 If a dispute arises between the Parties in connection with this Agreement or a Report:
(a) Any Party may give notice in writing to the other Party identifying the nature of the dispute;
(b) The Parties will consult with each other to attempt to resolve the dispute.  If the Parties cannot resolve the dispute within 30 days of service of the notice of dispute, either Party may refer the dispute to mediation;
(c) Such mediation is to be conducted by a person agreed upon by the Parties or, if the Parties are unable to agree, a person nominated by the President or Acting President of the Law Society of Western Australia;
(d) The cost of the mediator is to be born by the Party that gives the notice of dispute under sub-clause 16.1(a). In all other respects the Parties shall bear their own costs.
16.2 Sub-clause 16.1 does not restrict the right of the Parties to have recourse to general law remedies.
17. ADDRESS FOR SERVICE
17.1 Notices given by one Party to another, pursuant to this Agreement, shall be in writing and sent to the address of the Miner or the NTP and shall be deemed to be served upon actual receipt or at the time of transmission if sent by facsimile transmission or 3 clear working days after posting by ordinary pre-paid post, whichever is the earlier.  For the purpose of this clause the address to which notices are to be sent shall be:
(a) For the NTP:

Ngaanyatjarra Council (Aboriginal Corporation)
Level 2, 8 Victoria Avenue
Perth WA 6000

(b) For the Miner:

The Director
18. ENTIRE AGREEMENT 
18.1 This Agreement represents the entire understanding of the Parties in connection with the subject matter hereof.
19. GOODS AND SERVICES TAX (GST)
19.1 If a GST is imposed on a supply made under or in connection with this Agreement, then the Party making the supply may:
(a) increase the consideration otherwise provided for that supply under this Agreement by the amount of the GST; or 
(b) otherwise recover from the other Party the amount of the GST as a debt due and payable on demand.
20. STAMP DUTY 
20.1 The Miner shall pay all stamp duty assessed on this Agreement, including any stamp duty payable by way of fine or penalty.
21. COUNTERPARTS
21.1 This Agreement may be executed in counterparts.  If executed in counterparts, each counterpart together shall be taken to constitute one instrument.
22. GOVERNING LAW
22.1 This Agreement is governed by the laws in force in the State of Western Australia.
23. TERM
23.1 This Agreement shall commence on the Commencement Date and will come to an end when the Miner ceases to hold an interest in the Licence.

24. 
EXECUTION
24.1 Grantee Party:
SIGNED by


Insert name of Signatory 	Signature of Grantee Party

AN AUTHORISED REPRESENTATIVE 
AND ON BEHALF OF THE MINER in the
presence of:



Witness signature

24.2 Native Title Party:

SIGNED by


Insert name of Applicant 1	Signature of Applicant 1

ON BEHALF OF THE NTP in the presence of:



Witness signature

SIGNED by


Insert name of Applicant 2	Signature of Applicant 2

ON BEHALF OF THE NTP in the presence of:



Witness signature

SIGNED by


Insert name of Applicant 3	Signature of Applicant 3

ON BEHALF OF THE NTP in the presence of:



Witness signature


Attachment 1 


CONTENTS OF HERITAGE ASSESSMENT SURVEY REPORTS

1. Copyright/ Confidentiality
Insert a statement to the effect that the Report may only be copied in accordance with the Agreement and subject to any other restrictions agreed to by the Parties from time to time.
2. Assessment Personnel
(a) Author/s' name in full and occupation and Author/s' business/company name.
(b) Full names and genders of the Aboriginal participants, if any, and the group they represent, if known.
(c) Full names and genders of other Personnel participating in the assessment and their role.
(d) Confirmation that the Anthropologist considers the Traditional Owners to be appropriate to speak for Aboriginal heritage in relation to the Licence Area.
3. Survey Date/s
Insert the date/s fieldwork was conducted.
4. Survey Information
(a) Details of the area surveyed, i.e. tenement numbers "x" to "z" or the "abc" pastoral lease or the area shown on the map contained in the Report.
(b) Site name and number and Department reference number, if known.
(c) Site type, i.e. archaeological or ethnographic or both.
(d) Grid references, i.e. AMG eastings and northings, the AMG Zone (ie. Zone 51) and grid system (AGD-66, AGD-84, GDA) and the type of equipment used - GPS or DGPS or Survey or other.
(e) Location, i.e. where the Aboriginal Site is located in relation to tenure or significant topographical features.
(f) A clear description (using maps and co-ordinates) of the physical extent of any Aboriginal Sites within the Work Areas and a description of the nature of each Aboriginal Site, for example a granite outcrop or hill where a physical feature is located, or whether there is a Dreaming track (but not necessarily the Aboriginal name).
                   Attachment 2 


SURVEY NOTICE

INFORMATION TO BE PROVIDED IN ALL CASES WHEN MINER REQUESTS
Information Description of ContentTitle of 
Survey ReportTitle of Report containing information on SurveyProject Name Project nameProponentName/s of the MinerConsultant 
OrganisationLead consultant or consultant group undertaking studyReporting Person/sRole in Survey:
* Author/s
* Recorder (if not the same as author)
Name 
Group/ organisation they represent 
Contact detailsSurvey DateDate that Survey commencedReport DateDate of ReportSurvey Area/s A text description of Survey area 
Boundary to be defined by:
* coordinates; or
* cadastral or tenement identifierOrganisation that holds complete ReportOrganisation name
Aboriginal People Consulted (Claim Group)Native title claim group/s represented Other Participants Role in Survey (e.g. proponent representative)
Name 
Group/ organisation they represent 
Contact detailsSurvey Type* Archaeological; 
* Ethnographic; or 
* Both


Information Description of ContentDescription of Survey MethodologyConfirmation that the Report contains:
* A clear indication (using maps) of that part of the Work Area that is cleared or not cleared for Ground Disturbing Activity; or
* A clear description (using maps and co-ordinates) of the physical extent of any Aboriginal Sites within the Work Areas and a description of the nature of each site.Ethnographic MethodProvide an account of the consultation processContact for Further InformationName of relevant Native Title Representative Body
ADDITIONAL SURVEY INFORMATION TO BE PROVIDED TO THE DEPARTMENT WHERE TRADITIONAL OWNERS INSTRUCT
Information Description of ContentAboriginal Consultants (For each Aboriginal Site)Group/ Organisation they representAboriginal Site Location and ExtentDefine location and extent of Aboriginal Site with three or more listed coordinate points.  The coordinates of an Aboriginal Site area, maps and capture of ground coordinates are to be as described in the End Notes.Aboriginal Site InformationProvide a textual description of the Aboriginal Site. The Department's preference is for sufficient information about the site to be provided to enable the Aboriginal Cultural Material Committee to perform its site evaluation function with reference to sections 5 and 39 of the Heritage Act. Conditions or RecommendationsOutline any conditions and/ or recommendations for heritage management
	- 1 -

