IMPORTANT NOTICE 
This agreement is a pro forma document provided by Screen NSW. This agreement, in the absence of a longform Writer's Agreement, provides for the assignment of the entire copyright to the producer without reservation of any rights to the writer. This pro forma may however not adequately address important commercial and legal matters which are relevant to other parties in this project. Independent professional advice should be sought as to whether this document is suitable for your particular needs. 


WRITER'S ASSIGNMENT AGREEMENT - PREVIOUS WORK


THE WRITER:      	
of:      	.
(insert address)

THE PRODUCTION COMPANY:      	
ABN:      
of:      	.
(insert address)

THE DRAFT:      
(Concept/ outline/ treatment - all materials written to date by the Writer in respect of the Screenplay)

THE SCREENPLAY/FILM PROJECT:      
(insert title)

FILM CATEGORY:      
(insert documentary, feature etc)

THE FEE: $      	
(insert cash fee payable for the Draft; also specify deferred fee if applicable)


1.	In consideration of the Company's payment to the Writer of the Fee (receipt of which is acknowledged), the Writer hereby assigns to the Company all the Writer's right, title and interest (including all copyright) in the Writer's work with respect to the Screenplay (including the Draft) written as at the date of this Agreement, such assignment being for the territory of the world for the full period of copyright TO HOLD by the Company absolutely.

2.	The Writer agrees that the Company is free to adapt, assign, license and dispose of all right, title and interest (including copyright) in the Draft/Screenplay in its sole discretion, subject to the Company remaining liable for its obligations under this Agreement.

3.	The Writer agrees that the Company may use the Writer's name and likeness in connection with the development, production and marketing of the Film (and any ancillary rights).

4.	The Writer shall be entitled to a credit as mutually agreed and, failing agreement, the dispute shall be referred to the Australian Writers Guild for resolution.

5.1	To the extent that the Writer has any moral rights in the Screenplay, the Writer hereby consents to material alterations to the Screenplay which the Company or its assignees and licensees deem necessary to develop the Screenplay and/or to produce and market the Film.  To the extent that the Writer has any moral rights in the Film, the Writer hereby makes the following consents ( as set out in the Industry Accord) for the benefit of the Company, its assignees and licensees: 

(a)  	To edit the Film to meet television time slots;

(b)  	To incorporate advertisements into the Film to be broadcast on television or transmitted on a diffusion service;

(c)  	To meet the legal requirements of broadcasting authorities;
(d) 	To ensure that the Film meets any legal requirements or classification requirements or to avoid a breach of law;

(e)  	To make foreign language versions by way of dubbing or subtitling the Film;

(f) To make inflight and/or on-board versions of the Film;

(g) To use excerpts of the Film for the purpose of promotion of the Film including by way of teasers and advertisements; 

(h)         To make non-interactive on-line versions of the Film.
           
5.2	In the event that consents (which shall not be withheld unreasonably) are required to any material alterations other than those referred to in clause 5.1:

(a) 	The Company will contact the Writer to seek consent by making every reasonable effort in writing to contact the Writer to inform him that a request is being made for material alterations possibly outside Clause 5.1;

(b) 	To assist in contacting the Writer a copy of the notification will be lodged at the Australian Writers' Guild or the Australian Screen Writers Association.

(c) 	The Writer has 5 working days from receipt of the Company's notification to notify the Company in writing that the Writer desires to be consulted with reference to the proposed use or material alteration.

(d) 	After receiving notice from the Writer within the notice period specified in clause 5.2(c), the Company will nominate a time and place for such consultation at which the Writer may express views with regard to the proposed use or material alteration.

(e)	The Writer's services for the consultation will be provided at no cost to the Company.
	

6.	The Writer warrants that:
(a)	all work in respect of the Draft is original in the Writer and nothing therein infringes copyright in any other work or subject-matter or constitutes a breach of confidence or privilege or violates the right to privacy or any other rights of any third party;;
(b)	to the best of the Writer's knowledge, the Draft is not and shall not be defamatory;
(c)	the rights assigned by the Writer pursuant to this Agreement are free from any encumbrances and the Writer is free and fully entitled to assign these rights to the Company without the consent of any third party;
 (d)	to the best of the Writer's knowledge, there are no legal proceedings or any threat of such proceedings or any claim by any third party alleging that the Draft infringes the rights (whether of copyright or otherwise) of any third party;
(e)	the Draft has not been published;
(f)	the Writer shall do such further acts and execute and deliver such further documents as the Company may reasonably require in order to give effect to the terms of this Agreement and/or for the purpose of registration in the United States Copyright Registry.
7.	The Writer agrees that a breach of this Agreement by the Company shall not entitle the Writer to revoke the rights assigned under this Agreement and the Writer's sole remedy shall be limited to an action at law for damages.

8.	Special conditions (if any):      

9.	If any goods and services tax, value added tax or comparable tax ("GST") is imposed on any supply made under this Agreement by any party to this Agreement, then the supplier of the supply may collect from the recipient, in addition to any consideration due for the supply, the GST imposed on the supply calculated by multiplying the amount or value of the consideration for the supply by the GST tax rate prevailing as at the date the supply is made PROVIDED THAT the supplier has delivered to the recipient valid GST tax invoice(s) for that supply in a form that complies with the requirements of A New Tax System (Goods and Services Tax) Act 1999 (Cth) and any associated legislation or regulations (as amended).  If the recipient is required to pay an additional amount pursuant to this clause, the recipient will pay the additional amount within 14 days of its receipt of the valid GST tax invoice(s) delivered in accordance with this clause. The parties agree that any and all amounts and other consideration referred to in this Agreement are exclusive of any GST.




Dated:      




Signed and Agreed by:


. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 		. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
The Writer					ndependent Witness




Signed and Agreed for and on behalf of the Production Company:


. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 		. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
Authorised person for the Production Company			Independent Witness




Screen NSW Writer's Assignment Previous Draft 2009/10 	2/3

Screen NSW Writer's Assignment Previous Draft 2009/10 	1/3

