Professional Services Agreement

Conditions of Engagement for Professional Services from Kumquat Media

1) Definitions
a) Client means <insert full client name>.
b) Agreement means this document, the Client brief, and Kumquat Media's proposal.

2) Kumquat Media shall provide to the Client the professional services described in the Agreement.

3) In providing the services, Kumquat Media shall exercise the degree of skill, care and diligence normally exercised by consulting information technology professionals in similar circumstances.

4) The Client shall provide to Kumquat Media briefing and all information concerning the Client's requirement for the project.

5) The Client shall pay to Kumquat Media the fee as set out in the Proposal.

6) Kumquat Media shall deliver the final product to the schedule as set out in the Proposal.  The date of commencement is determined to be the later date of
a) The completion of this agreement,
b) The delivery by the Client of all existing documents, information and data required for the completion of the Agreement.
Any variations to the specifications of the product may delay the final delivery date.

7) All monies payable by the Client to Kumquat Media shall be paid within fifteen (15) days of invoice.  Monies not paid within that period shall attract interest from the date of invoice until payment at the rate of 15% per annum.  Any delay in payment will delay the final delivery date by a corresponding amount of time.

8) The Client may, on the recommendation of Kumquat Media or otherwise, instruct Kumquat Media in writing to vary the services, so long as the variation is within the general scope of the services.

9) Before or after instructing a variation, the Client may request Kumquat Media to provide a written estimate of the time, cost and scheduling effects of the proposed variation within a reasonable time as set out by the client.

10) The direction in Clause 8 is not binding until Kumquat Media has provided a written estimate and the Client has subsequently given written approval to proceed.

11) Kumquat Media shall provide a warranty period of ninety (90) days from the date of delivery of the final product.  Any defects found within this warranty period will be corrected free of further charge within five (5) working days of notification.

12) The liability of Kumquat Media to the Client in respect of the project shall be limited to the cost of rectifying the product, or the total fee payable to Kumquat Media, whichever is the lesser.

13) All intellectual property forming part of the final product shall be vested in the Client upon receipt of fees pertaining to that intellectual property.

14) All intellectual property not created or owned by Kumquat Media, or not forming part of the final product, or for which fees have not been received, shall not be vested in the Client, and shall remain the property of Kumquat Media or the original creator or owner.

15) Any dispute between the Client and Kumquat Media shall first be the subject of mediation provided that this provision shall not prevent Kumquat Media from instituting legal action at any time to recover monies owing by the Client to Kumquat Media.

16) The Client may terminate its obligations under this Agreement
a) In the event of substantial breach by Kumquat Media of its obligations hereunder, which breach has not been remedied within thirty (30) days of written notice from the Client requiring the breach to be remedied, or
b) Upon giving Kumquat Media sixty (60) days written notice of its intention to do so.

17) Kumquat Media may suspend or terminate its obligations under this Agreement
a) In the event of monies payable to Kumquat Media hereunder being outstanding for more than sixty (60) days,
b) In the event of other substantial breach by the Client of its obligations hereunder which breach has not been remedied within thirty (30) days of written notice from Kumquat Media requiring the breach to be remedied, or
c) Upon giving the Client sixty (60) days written notice of its intention to do so.

18) If Kumquat Media considers it appropriate to do so, the firm may with the Client's prior approval, which shall not be unreasonably withheld, engage another consultant to assist Kumquat Media in specialist areas.

19) Neither party may assign, transfer or sublet any obligation under this Agreement without the written consent of the other.  Unless stated in writing to the contrary, no assignment, transfer or subletting shall release the assignor from any obligation under this Agreement.


For ClientFor Kumquat MediaNameNamePositionPositionDateDate
