Deferred Forest Agreement between the Commonwealth and NSW
Preamble 
WHEREAS the Commonwealth of Australia and the State of New South Wales wish to protect forest areas which may be required for a national forest reserve system, in keeping with commitments made in the National Forest Policy Statement (NFPS), pending the negotiation of Regional Forest Agreements, the following is agreed: 
Interpretation 
1. In this Agreement, unless otherwise specified: 
"The Governments" means the Commonwealth of Australia and the State of New South Wales; and 
"Agreement Area" means the area composed of the 32 management areas defined in Clause 7 below. 
"Deferred Forest Area" means all those public native forests within the Agreement Area which are not otherwise listed as available for harvesting in the New South Wales State Forests' Logging Schedule 1995-96 (Attachment 1) as amended in accordance with this Agreement, but does not include plantations; 
"Commercial timber harvesting" means harvesting for sawlogs, pulpwood, veneer logs, poles, piles, girders and sleepers or associated roading activities. 
1.1. The provisions of this Agreement are not intended to give rise to legally enforceable rights or obligations between the Commonwealth and the State of New South Wales. 
1.2. Unless otherwise specified, this Agreement shall apply only to publicly owned native forests within the Agreement Area which are outside of existing reserves and which are not plantations. 
1.3. The Commonwealth and New South Wales recognise that this Agreement and any RFA negotiated cannot impose on a party any obligation that is inconsistent with a law of the Commonwealth or of New South Wales where that law is binding upon that party.
Permissible activities 
2. The State of New South Wales may permit commercial timber harvesting operations to take place only in those public native forest areas which are listed as available for harvesting in Attachment 1 as amended in accordance with this Agreement. 
3. Deferred Forest Areas have been identified after consideration of the officials' report on the Deferred Forest Assessment (DFA) process, and related reports including those of the Comonwealth Scientific Advisory Group. The Deferred Forest Areas are intended to ensure that the parties have available to them the broadest responsible range of reserve selection and design options for identification, through the RFA process, of areas required for a CAR reserve system in accordance with the process related to the Commonwealth's reserve criteria of July 1995 (Attachment 2). 
4. In order to protect the values identified in the Deferred Forest Area assessment, the State of New South Wales shall not permit commercial timber harvesting operations to take place in Deferred Forest Areas. 
5. Clause 4 does not prevent the completion of commercial timber harvesting operations, in areas previously approved by the Commonwealth, where operations commenced prior to this Agreement coming into force, and where that approval has not been withdrawn prior to this Agreement coming into force, subject to case by case reference to the Commonwealth, notwithstanding that they are in the Deferred Forest Area. 
6. The State of New South Wales may permit other activities, including mining, mineral exploration, minor forest products getting, grazing, beekeeping and recreational activities, in Deferred Forest Areas subject to the normal provisions of any applicable Commonwealth and State legislation, including environmental protection legislation. 
Agreement Area 
7. For the purposes of this Agreement, the Agreement Area for New South Wales is comprised of the 32 management areas listed in Schedule 2 as defined at the date of signature of this Agreement, and as modified by the boundaries of the four Deferred Forest Assessment Study Areas shown on the attached map (Schedule 3). 
7.1 The Governments will develop by 30 July 1996 boundaries of forest regions for the purposes of completing Regional Forest Agreements in NSW.
Duration 
8. The Agreement commences from the date of signature by both Governments and remains in force until 31 December 1999, subject to Clauses 9 and 20-23. 
9. Where a Regional Forest Agreement applies to an area covered by this Agreement, the terms of the Regional Forest Agreement will override the provisions of this Agreement in respect of that area. 
10. Any variation to this Agreement must be agreed in writing by the Governments and added to the Agreement by way of attachment. 
Exceptional circumstances - review 
11. Either Government may, at any time, request a review of the status of an area covered under the Agreement in the event of: 
(a) major losses resulting from significant bushfire events; 
(b) extreme climatic or other significant unforseen natural events including: exceptional fire weather that renders forest areas listed as available for harvesting in Attachment 1, as amended in accordance with this Agreement, unsafe where regeneration activities in adjacent coupes have not been completed; landslides; bridge failures and floods; 
(c) major impacts on accessibility, unforseen environmental hazards identified by forests practice advice or other conditions resulting from sub-paragraph (a) and/or (b) where the impacts, hazards or conditions prevent or significantly impair planned harvesting activities; 
(d) identification of unforseen and significant conservation values which this Agreement seeks to protect, and which may be threatened, or a newly identified and significant threat to existing conservation values which have been identified during the DFA process; or 
(e) unforseen and significant changes in market conditions requiring major adjustment of the ratio of sawlogs to pulplogs.
12. Any proposed change, including under Clause 11, to the status of part of the Agreement area shall be not be made unless the agreed values would continue to be protected. 
13. Consideration may also be given during the review process to the designation of new areas available for timber harvesting from areas in the Deferred Forest Area, or vice versa, where these are required to replace areas for any of the reasons specified above. 
14. The review process shall be initiated by agreement of the Governments and shall include a public consultation process with a period for interested parties to comment on any significant proposed change to the status of part of the Agreement area. 
14.1. The Governments may, where circumstances dictate the need for urgent review of an area covered under this Agreement, agree that the review process shall not include an opportunity for public comment and that a decision will be made expeditiously.
15. The Governments shall not unreasonably withhold agreement to review or redefine the status of an area or areas covered by this Agreement and any such change must not prejudice the opportunity of setting up a comprehensive, adequate and representative reserve system for the agreed values, as assessed in the DFA. 
Information and standards of assessment 
16. The Governments shall make available to each other any and all information which may have bearing on the conduct of a review subject to commercial and other confidentiality, copyright or contractual arrangements. 
17. During the course of a review, the Commonwealth shall, subject to Clause 17.1 and consistent with the NFPS, apply to New South Wales the same standards with respect to forest management and environmental and other assessments as have been or will be applied to other States. 
17.1. In relation to such reviews, the Commonwealth shall allow for differences in the obligations to apply to each State only to the extent necessary to take account of differences in the forest types and in the environmental, economic and social factors in each State and differences in the level, quality and analysis of information about forest regions . 
New South Wales Interim Assessment Process 
18. The Governments of New South Wales and the Commonwealth agree to participate in a joint assessment of high conservation value forests for interim protection in New South Wales through the existing New South Wales Interim Assessment process conducted by the Resource and Conservation Assessment Council (RACAC). 
19. The Commonwealth recognises the Interim Assessment process and will participate as a member of RACAC in that process. The RACAC will take into account the Commonwealth's comprehensive, adequate and representative reserve criteria and consider the policy objectives of the New South Wales Government in making its assessment. 
19.1. The New South Wales Interim Assessment process will consider, inter alia, the Buccleuch and Bago-Maragle State Forests of NSW Management Areas.
Review of Areas following New South Wales Interim Assessment Process 
20. Following completion of the New South Wales Interim Assessment Process the Governments shall review the status of areas covered by this Agreement and shall consider whether any area should be added to or removed from the Agreement Area (including the Buccleuch and Bago-Maragle State Forests of NSW Management Areas). 
21. The review under Clause 20 shall have regard to the findings and recommendations of the New South Wales Interim Assessment Process. 
22. Following the review under Clause 20: 
(1) any area may be added to, or removed from, the Agreement Area defined in Clause 1; and 
(2) any area may be added to, or removed from, the list of areas available for harvesting or the list of Deferred Forest Areas;
by the agreement of both Governments. 
23. The provisions of Clauses 17 and 17.1 shall also apply to a review under Clause 20. 
Commitments 
24. The Governments agree to abide by the commitments set out in Schedule 1 of this Agreement and the Scoping Agreement for New South Wales, being an Agreement between the Commonwealth and the State of New South Wales which sets out the methodology to be undertaken to reach one or more Regional Forest Agreements. 
Signed for and on behalf of each of the Parties by: 
The Honourable Paul John Keating MP ) 
Prime Minister of the Commonwealth of Australia, ) 
on the th day of January 1996 ) 
in the presence of 
The Honourable Robert John Carr MP ) 
Premier of the State of New South Wales, ) 
on the the day of January 1996 )
in the presence of 
Schedule 1 
(NSW DFA Commitments) 
1. Where the area of a land type is specified in Column 4 of tables G1a, G2, and G3 of the Deferred Forest Areas Report for New South Wales, the New South Wales Government agrees that it will protect from harvesting within the area available for harvesting such areas of that land type as in total would equal the area specified in Column 4. 
2. The New South Wales Government will monitor compliance with the prescriptions and conditions of timber harvesting licences to ensure, so far as reasonably possible, that the forest conservation values which the Deferred Forest Areas report indicates will be protected are so protected. 
3. The Eden Native Forest Management Area will be included in the New South Wales Government's Interim Forest Assessment Process. 
4. The New South Wales Interim Forest Assessment Process will include a broad-scale survey of old growth forest on public lands. The results of this survey will be considered in the review conducted under Clauses 20-23 of this Agreement to improve the classification and protection of old growth forest in NSW.
Schedule 2 
(Management areas) 
Badja 
Bateman's Bay 
Buladelah 
Casino 
Cessnock 
Chichester 
Coffs Harbour 
Coopernook 
Dorrigo 
Eden 
Glen Innes
Gloucester 
Grafton 
Kempsey 
Kendall 
Marsh 
Moss Vale 
Mount Royal 
Murwillumbah 
Narooma
Nowra 
Queanbeyan 
Styx River 
Taree 
Tenterfield 
Urbenville 
Urunga 
Walcha-Nundle 
Wallaroo 
Wauchope 
Wingham 
Wyong
Schedule 3 
(Deferred Forest Assessment Study Areas) 












