








The "Argus Authorised Version" Licence

TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF USE OF SOFTWARE

These Terms and Conditions apply to the use of the Software. In accepting the
Software, using the Software or dealing with the Software in any way, you agree
to be bound by these Terms and Conditions. If you do not accept these terms and
conditions, you must refrain from using the Software and must promptly return or
destroy, as directed by ArgusConnect, any copies of the Software that may be in
your possession or control.

ArgusConnect Pty. Ltd. ACN 107 558 387, Suite 4, Greenhill Enterprise Centre,
University Drive, Mt Helen 3350 ("ArgusConnect") has agreed to grant to you a
non-exclusive licence to use the Software for the Term and for the Purpose subject
to these Terms and Conditions.

In these Terms and Conditions:

"End User" means those persons who have access to and use of the Software by
reason of this Licence;

"IPR" means any and all intellectual and industrial property rights existing
anywhere in the world including rights in respect of or in connection with:

(i) any confidential information;
(ii) copyright (including future copyright and rights in the nature of or
analogous to copyright);
(iii) patents;
(iv) trade marks;
(v) designs; and
(vi) circuit layouts,

whether or not registered or registrable and includes any right to apply for the
registration of such rights and includes all renewals and extensions;

"Purpose" means the use of the Software in clinical environments;

"Software" means "Argus Authorised Version ? Freeware Edition" and other Argus
software products as detailed in the attached Schedule;

"Term" means the period from when you accept these Terms and Conditions to the
time when ArgusConnect informs you that the licence granted under these Terms and
Conditions is revoked;

"you" means you or the person or entity on behalf of whom you have acquired the
Software, and "your" has a corresponding meaning.

1. Permitted Purpose

You must not use, nor permit any other person to use, the Software or improvements
to it for any purpose other than the Purpose.

2. Non-Exclusive Licence

Nothing in these Terms and Conditions limits ArgusConnect's rights in, or to use
or grant other persons rights to use, the Software for any purpose and in any format.

3. Licencee Registration

For this Licence to be effective, the licencee must complete the registration
process that is associated with the activation of this Software including the
providing of information on the licencee, on the location at which the product
will be used and details of the operating environment. The licencee also undertakes
to maintain the currency of this information with ArgusConnect or the nominated
supporting agent.

4. Consent

In consideration that other healthcare practitioners need to identify all users
of the software under this licence for the purposes of sending clinical information
via Argus, you agree that Argus-specific addressing details of each user may be
published on the Argus Users Directory and made available to other healthcare
providers.  Details that will be exposed to other healthcare providers will be:
-	the medical practice name
-	the medical practice physical address
-	the medical specialty
-	the names of doctors in the practice
-	the email address to be used to receive clinical information via Argus

In agreeing to this condition:

(a) You confirm that you have the authority to give consent to this condition on
behalf of other end-user(s) of the software under this licence; and

(b) You do give this consent.

5. No Modifications or Sub-Licensing.

(a) You must ensure that End Users do not make modifications or permit a third
party to make modifications to the Software.

(b) You must not grant or purport to grant a sub-licence or any rights in respect
of the Software to any person.

6. Assignment

(a) You must not dispose of or assign any of your rights under these Terms and
Conditions without the prior written consent of ArgusConnect.

(b) ArgusConnect must not assign any IPR in the Software, or its rights under
these Terms and Conditions, without your prior written consent except if the
proposed assignee is a wholly owned subsidiary of ArgusConnect,and in any case
ArgusConnect must ensure that the proposed assignee executes a deed or other form
of acknowledgment that the proposed assignee agrees to and will be bound by these
Terms and Conditions.

7. No warranties

(a) Subject to clause 5(b), all express and implied warranties,
guarantees and conditions under statute or general law as to
merchantability, description, quality, suitability or fitness of
the goods for any purpose or as to design, assembly, installation, materials or
workmanship or otherwise are expressly excluded.

(b) Nothing in these Terms and Conditions is intended to be read or applied so
as to exclude, restrict or modify or have the effect of excluding, restricting or
modifying any condition, warranty, guarantee, right or remedy implied by law
(including the Trade Practices Act 1974) and which by law cannot be excluded,
restricted or modified.

8. Infringement of ArgusConnect's Rights

(a) You must as soon as reasonably practical notify ArgusConnect of any actual,
threatened or suspected infringement of any of ArgusConnect's rights, including
its IPR in, to or in connection with the Software of which you become aware during
the term of the licence
granted under these Terms and Conditions.

(b) You must cooperate with and provide reasonable assistance to ArgusConnect in
respect of any proceedings issued by ArgusConnect to enforce its rights, including
its IPR, in and to the Software.

9. Release

(a) You assume all risks associated with operating the Software and ArgusConnect
does not warrant that the Software will be error free or will meet your specific
needs.

(b) ArgusConnect does not warrant the accuracy of any data or information generated
as a result of your use of the Software.

(c) To the maximum extent permitted at law, you hereby release, indemnify and agree
to hold harmless ArgusConnect against any claims for loss, damage, cost or expense
that you or any person claiming through you may incur as a result of or in connection
with the Software.

10. Termination

(a) The licence granted under these Terms and Conditions may be terminated by you
by giving 2 weeks' written notice to ArgusConnect.

(b) The licence granted under these Terms and Conditions may be revoked by ArgusConnect
by giving 2 weeks' written notice to you.

(c) The termination or revocation of the licence granted under these Terms and
Conditions is without prejudice to any rights which have accrued to a party before
the date of termination.

11. Notice

All notices required to be given by you under these Terms and Conditions must be
in writing and served by delivering it to ArgusConnect's address as indicated in
these Terms and Conditions, or by posting it by prepaid registered post to that address.

12. Enforcement

(a) Any clause or part of a clause of these Terms and Conditions which is ineffective
in any jurisdiction is ineffective only to that extent and in that jurisdiction.

(b) Where any clause or part of a clause is ineffective in a particular jurisdiction
it may be severed without affecting any other part of these Terms and Conditions.

13. Waiver

No right under these Terms and Conditions or the licence granted under these Terms
and Conditions is waived or deemed to be waived except by notice in writing signed
by the party waiving the right.

14. Neither these Terms and Conditions nor the licence granted under these Terms
and Conditions creates any partnership, joint venture or agency relationship between
the parties.

15. Governing Law and Jurisdiction

These Terms and Conditions and the licence granted under these Terms and Conditions
are governed by the law of the State of Victoria. The parties irrevocably submit to
the non-exclusive jurisdiction of the courts of the State of Victoria.

16. Entire Agreement

These Terms and Conditions constitute the entire agreement between the parties in
relation to the licence and use of the Software. Any changes to these Terms and
Conditions shall only be binding if agreed in writing and signed by the parties.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------
SCHEDULE

ArgusMessenger - Authorised version
ArgusMail - Authorised version
ArgusAPI - Authorised version
ArgusAgent - Authorised version
ArgusAddressBookSetup - Authorised version




	-  1  -

