
DEED OF ASSIGNMENT OF INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY DEED- FROM A STUDENT TO THE UNIVERSITY
[where sections 7.3 or 7.9 of the Griffith University Intellectual Property Policy apply]


THIS DEED OF ASSIGNMENT is made pursuant to the Griffith University Intellectual Property Policy and the Griffith University Intellectual Property Procedures as amended from time to time and housed in the Griffith University Policy Library. 

WHEREAS: 

A.	The Student has developed and owns Intellectual Property or will in the course of their involvement in the University Project create Intellectual Property.

B.	The University wishes to acquire ownership of the Intellectual Property from the Student.

C.	The Student agrees to assign her/his Intellectual Property rights to the University in accordance with the terms of this Deed.

1.0 DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATION
1.1 Defined terms are set out in this Deed.  Any term appearing in capitals which is not defined in this Deed will take the definition prescribed within the Griffith University Intellectual Property Policy and the Griffith University Intellectual Property Procedures.
1.2 To the extent of any inconsistency between terms defined in this Deed and terms defined in the Griffith University Intellectual Property Policy and the Griffith University Intellectual Property Procedures, the terms defined in this Deed prevail. 
2.0 ASSIGNMENT OBLIGATIONS UNDER THIS DEED
2.1 The Student assigns to the University all rights, title and interest in the Intellectual Property created by the Student pursuant to the activities specified in sections 7.3 and 7.9  of the Griffith University Intellectual Property Policy, including the University Project, subject to:
(a) the Student's Moral Rights as prescribed in section 8.0 of the Griffith University Intellectual Property Policy; and
(b) clause 3.1 of this Deed.
2.2 The Student:
(a) acknowledges that the Student has not been impeded in submitting a thesis, which contains the Intellectual Property, for examination and completing requirements for the award of a degree or other relevant award;
(b) acknowledges that the Student has not been required to assign the Intellectual Property in order to qualify for enrolment or to remain enrolled in a course; 
(c) acknowledges that the Student has been encouraged to submit academic papers to scholarly journals, which contains the Intellectual Property, subject to any necessary delays to protect the intellectual property rights of the University; 
(d) grants the University the right to apply for patent protection in respect of any invention or innovation comprised in the Intellectual Property;
(e) acknowledges that no additional documentation is necessary to complete the assignment; and
(f) will do all things reasonably requested by the University (at the University's expense) to enable the University or its assignee to obtain and/or exploit the Intellectual Property rights assigned under this Deed.
2.3 The Student must not, without the University's written consent, deal with the Intellectual Property in a manner which is inconsistent with the provisions of this Deed.
3.0 COPYRIGHT IN STUDENT'S THESIS
3.1 The Parties acknowledge that all copyright in the Student's Thesis is owned by the Student and nothing in this Deed affects this ownership.
3.2 The Student grants to the University a non-exclusive, royalty free, perpetual, irrevocable, world-wide licence (including the right to sub-license) to make available for consultation, loan, or copying, at the discretion of the University, any copy of the Student's Thesis, subject to the Student's Moral Rights as prescribed in section 8.0 of the Griffith University Intellectual Property Policy and any pre-existing express obligations of confidentiality.
4.0 COMMERCIALISATION OF THE INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY 
4.1 In respect of the Student sharing in the Net Financial Proceeds (if any) arising from Commercialisation by the University, with all other joint creators or inventors, and any other parties whose ownership of Intellectual Property is governed by any contracts to which the University is bound, the Student elects to share the Net Financial Proceeds in the proportions prescribed in section 4.1 of the Griffith University Intellectual Property Procedures and specified in Item 1 of the Schedule.
4.2 Where the Student is entitled to received payment under clause 4.1 of this Deed, that payment will be paid to the Student in arrears on calendar quarters starting on the calendar quarter after the University received the first payment from which the Student will receive a payment.  A share in the Net Financial Proceeds to the Student will continue for as long as the University receives Net Financial Proceeds arising from Commercialisation of the Intellectual Property under an agreement.
4.3 The Student will be responsible for any personal tax implications as a result of payments or equity received pursuant to this clause 4.0.
5.0 REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES
5.1 The Student represents and warrants that: 
(a) the Student is a 'Student' within the meaning of the Griffith University Intellectual Property Policy;
(b) to the best of their knowledge the Student has all the necessary rights and licences (including the right to sub-license) in the Intellectual Property to allow the University to assert its rights pursuant to clauses 2.1 and 3.2 of this Deed;
(c) the Student has the rights and power to enter into, perform and observe his/her obligations under this Deed;
(d) to the best of their knowledge the exercise by the University of its rights under clauses 2.1 and 3.2 of this Deed does not and will not infringe the intellectual property rights of a third person;
(e) the Student is not involved in any commercial activities that might conflict with the commercialisation of the Intellectual Property (as defined in the Appendix of the Griffith University Intellectual Property Policy) of the University;
(f) the Student will immediately notify the Deputy Vice Chancellor (Research) if he/she becomes involved in any commercial activities that might conflict with the commercialisation of the Intellectual Property (as defined in the Appendix of the Griffith University Intellectual Property Policy) of the University;
(g) the Student will maintain confidentiality in relation to the Intellectual Property and the University Project;
(h) the Student has obtained independent legal advice, or has elected not to seek independent legal advice, in relation to this Deed. If the Student is unable to afford legal expenses for that advice, the University will pay for that advice, up to an amount approved by the Director, Commercialisation, and will be entitled to make the first call on any income arising from Commercialisation of that Intellectual Property for recovery of such payment; and
(i) subject to the University's obligations in section 8.0 of the Griffith University Intellectual Property Policy, the Student agrees to  waive, to the extent permissible at law, his/her Moral Rights in respect of the Intellectual Property and voluntarily and unconditionally consents to the University or persons authorised by the University doing, or omitting to do, with respect to the Intellectual Property, any act, including but not limited to:
(i) reproducing, publishing, communicating, performing or adapting the Intellectual Property without attributing its authorship to the Student; 
(ii) any alteration to or deletion from the Intellectual Property (including the relocation, demolition or destruction of the Intellectual Property, whether or not the alteration to or deletion from is prejudicial to the Student's honour or reputation); or
(iii) dealing in any way with Intellectual Property which has been substantially altered; or reproducing the Intellectual Property which has been substantially altered, as the Student's unaltered Work,
which would otherwise infringe the Student's Moral Rights in the Intellectual Property.
6.0 GENERAL
6.1 Indemnity
The Student will indemnify the University, its staff or agents against any loss suffered or incurred by the University including a third party claim against the University, its staff or agents arising from a breach of this Deed by the Student.
6.2 Entire Deed
This Deed, together with the relevant Schedule that applies to the Student, constitutes the entire agreement between the Parties. This Deed supersedes all previous written and oral agreements and understandings reached by the Parties regarding the assignment of Intellectual Property.
6.3 Provision of Intellectual Property
The Student will, as soon as is reasonably possible following a request from the University, provide the University with a complete copy of all documentation (in any format) relating to the Intellectual Property for the University's own use, to meet record-keeping requirements of the University or to allow the University to assert its rights granted pursuant to this Deed.
6.4 Amendment
Alterations or variations of this Deed will not be valid unless in writing and signed by both Parties.
6.5 No Waiver
No rights under this Deed will be deemed to be waived except where the waiver is in writing and is signed by the University.
Any failure by the University to enforce any clause of this Deed or any forbearance, delay or indulgence granted by the University to the Student, will not be construed as a waiver of the University's rights under this Deed.
6.6 Severability
Part or all of any provision of this Deed that is illegal or unenforceable may be severed from this Deed and the remaining provisions of this Deed continue in force.
6.7 Relationship
This Deed does not create a relationship of employment, agency or partnership between the Parties.

6.8 Governing law and jurisdiction
This Deed shall be governed and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Queensland, Australia. The parties submit unconditionally to the jurisdiction of the Courts of Queensland.
6.9 Execution
This Deed shall be effective once it is executed by the Student, irrespective of whether it is executed by the University.


SCHEDULE 1

1.0 DEFINITIONS
1.1 "Intellectual Property" means the Intellectual Property as prescribed in sections 3.0, 7.3 and 7.9 of the Griffith University Intellectual Property Policy.
1.2 "University Project" means the program of research undertaken by the Student under supervision of Staff of the University in relation to [Insert details of Project].

THIS DEED OF ASSIGNMENT is made on the [insert day of the month] day of [insert month] [insert year].


BETWEEN:	Griffith University, a body corporate established by the Griffith University Act 1998, of Kessels Road, Nathan in the State of Queensland
("the University")

AND:		[insert name of Student]
of [insert address of Student]
("Student") 
(each a "Party" and together "The Parties")

Item No.Clause No.Details1. Clause 4.1 -Share of Net Financial Proceeds of Commercialisation

(a) Election pursuant to Section 4.0 of the Griffith University Intellectual Property Procedures.[See User Guide for information on how to complete this entry] 

Section 4.1(a) of the Griffith University Intellectual Property Procedures - Applicable.- [insert details of the Deed reached with the University]

or 

Section 4.1(b) of the Griffith University Intellectual Property Procedures - Applicable.(b)	Allocation of Net Financial ProceedsIf Section 4.1(a) chosen at item 1(a) above, then this item should be completed "Not Applicable"

If Section 4.1(b) chosen at item 1(a) above, then see User Guide for information on how to complete this entry

EXECUTED as a DEED:


Signed by [INSERT NAME OF STUDENT] in the presence of??Signature of witnessSignature of the StudentName of witness (print)Date



Signed for GRIFFITH UNIVERSITY by an authorised officer in the presence of??Signature of witnessSignature of Pro Vice Chancellor (Administration)Name of witness (print)Name of Pro Vice Chancellor (Administration) (print)Date










BNE5_320328_2 (W2003)

		Page 2



		Page 1
G:\AA\LLO\Proformas & Precedents\Deeds of Assignment\IP Assignment\IP Assignment from Students to GU (IP Policy) (Protected Web Version 3Jul06).doc

