Unaddressed Mail Service Terms And Conditions
1 Introduction
1.1 These special service terms and conditions are supplementary to the Australia Post Terms and Conditions and to the extent that any aspect of this special service is not expressly included herein, the Australia Post Terms and Conditions apply.
1.2 These special service terms and conditions apply when:
1.2.1 a customer makes a written application to use the special service in or on a form prescribed by Australia Post for that purpose; 
1.2.2 Australia Post accepts that application; and
1.2.3 the customer pays the fee, charge, premium, rate or price charged by Australia Post for the special service.
2 Interpretation
2.1 Except as where expressly defined, all words and phrases used in this agreement shall have the same meaning if any, given to them in The Australian Postal Corporation Act 1989 and in the Australia Post Terms and Conditions provided, however, that where there is any inconsistency, the meaning shall be as defined in this agreement to the extent of that inconsistency.
2.2 In these terms and conditions unless the contrary intention appears:
2.2.1 where a word or phrase is given a particular meaning, other parts of speech and grammatical forms of that word or phrase have a corresponding meaning;
2.2.2 words importing a gender include any other gender; and
2.2.3 words in the singular number include the plural and words in the plural number include the singular.
2.3 "Actual points" means the number of delivery points of any type which are actually available for delivery in a delivery area at the time of delivery pursuant to this agreement.
2.4 "agreement" means an agreement between Australia Post and a customer pursuant to clause 1.2.
2.5 "Community notices" means articles lodged pursuant to this agreement by or under the authority of, local, State or Federal government or their agencies, political organisations, religious or educational institutions, or charitable bodies (including benevolent and welfare societies).
2.6 "Customer" means a person who is approved by Australia Post as a customer of the service and any permitted transferee in respect thereof; 
2.7 "Mailer" means the person or company entering into this agreement and, where the Mailer is a mailing house, includes any person or company on whose behalf the Mailer enters into this agreement.
2.8 "Service" means the Unaddressed Mail Service which is special service for delivery of unaddressed letters to delivery points within a specified geographic area.
3 Conditions of Service
3.1 Articles lodged pursuant to this agreement must not be larger than 360mm x 260mm. All articles in a distribution must be identical in size and mass.
3.2 Articles may be lodged enveloped, wrapped or unwrapped. If an unwrapped article measures more than 360mm x 260mm when flat and unopened, then it must be folded flat prior to lodgment to a maximum width of 125mm (any number of folds is acceptable) and a maximum thickness of 20mm.
3.3 A sample may be required before the distribution is approved.
3.4 Apart from the Reply Paid service, no special services may be used in conjunction with the Unaddressed Mail Service.
3.5 No explosive substances or prescribed or dangerous or deleterious substances may be lodged, except in accordance with the Australia Post Terms and Conditions.
4 Lodgment
4.1 Australia Post is deemed to have accepted the lodgment only when:
4.1.1 the mailing statement is correctly receipted and stamped; and 4.1.2 the information contained in the mailing statement has been verified.
4.2 Australia Post reserves the right to check the contents of all lodgments at the time of lodgment or thereafter while the lodgment is in the possession of Australia Post to verify the information contained in the mailing statement.
5 Disclosure
5.1 The Mailer agrees that Australia Post may disclose the Mailer's name and address to a person to whom an article has been delivered upon the request of that person.
6 Mailer's Warranty
6.1 The Mailer warrants:
6.1.1 that it has complied with all laws and Regulations, both State and Federal, relating to the advertising material contained in the articles for delivery by Australia Post;
6.1.2 that the articles do not contain anything which is defamatory or offensive; and
6.1.3 that the content of any advertising does not breach the copyright, trademark or other intellectual property rights of any person.
7 Delivery
7.1 Australia Post shall deliver Unaddressed Mail in the normal course of its business provided always that:
7.1.1 delivery of articles shall be made between Monday to Friday of the nominated delivery week;
7.1.2 delivery after the first week in December and before the first week of January is not available unless otherwise agreed in writing by Australia Post;
7.1.3 articles shall not be delivered to points displaying stickers or signs bearing the words "no unaddressed advertising material" or other similar request unless they are community notices and their delivery is permitted by law
7.1.4 articles lodged pursuant to this agreement may be subject to further requirements published by Australia Post in relation to:
(i) the arrangement of articles so as to facilitate their delivery;
(ii) notice periods for use of the service; and
(ii) a prohibition of lodgment of articles for delivery generally, or in respect of particular areas during a nominated period or periods.
7.2 Where articles are lodged for delivery from more than one delivery office, the person lodging the articles may nominate the proportion of the total lodgment that is to be delivered from each office.
7.3 Subject to clause 7.1 and clause 7.2, the articles shall be delivered as follows:
7.3.1 where the number of articles lodged for points in an area equals the actual points, one article shall be delivered to each point;
7.3.2 where the number of articles lodged is less than the number of actual points, Australia Post shall select the points to be serviced and deliver one article to each point selected; and
7.3.3 where the number of articles lodged exceeds the number of actual points, the excess shall be disposed of in any manner as Australia Post in its absolute discretion decides. 
Provided however that Australia Post may in its discretion offer the service for delivery to some but not all of the points on such terms and conditions as it determines, including rates of postage 
8 Rates and Charges
8.1 Payment of an amount for each of the articles in the lodgment, equal to the agreed postage payable per item, shall be by money or charged to a charge account approved by Australia Post for the purpose.
9 Limitation of Liability Release and Indemnity
9.1 Australia Post is not liable for:
9.1.1 the injury, illness or death of any person, misdelivery, late delivery, or early delivery;
9.1.2 damage to property, whether concealed or otherwise, including but not limited to deterioration, contamination or evaporation of any article or thing; or
9.1.3 any other loss or damage of any kind
however caused and whether direct or consequential, including, negligence or breach of contract by Australia Post, its employees, servants or agents, that arises in whole or in part from, or in connection with, any services provided by Australia Post.
9.2 To the extent permissible by law, Australia Post expressly disclaims all conditions and warranties, express or implied in respect of the Service. Where the law precludes such exclusion and implies certain conditions and warranties into this agreement, the liability of Australia Post for breach of such condition or warranty shall be limited, at the option of Australia Post to either:
9.2.1 supplying the service again; or
9.2.2 payment of the cost of having the service supplied again, or the actual loss or damage, whichever is the lesser.
9.3  Where Australia Post has agreed that the Mailer may use the service and the Mailer fails to lodge articles in accordance with the agreed volume or geographical area and/or the lodgement conditions and notice requirements advised by Australia Post, the Mailer indemnifies and will keep indemnified, Australia Post for all loss and damage including loss of profit that Australia Post suffers as a result.
10 Force Majeure
10.1 Australia Post shall not be in default under the terms of this agreement nor liable for failure to observe or perform in accordance with any provision of this agreement for any reason or cause which could not with reasonable diligence be controlled or prevented by it, including without limitation, war, insurrection, riot, civil commotion, strikes, lock-outs, labour or industrial disputes, acts of God, acts of Governments or flood, storm, tempest, power shortages or power failure, inability to obtain sufficient labour, raw materials, fuel or utilities. During the period of an incident or incidents of "Force Majeure" this agreement shall be suspended and delivery will recommence after the incident or incidents of "Force Majeure" end.
11 Merger
11.1 All the rights, immunities and limitations of liability in this Agreement shall continue to have their full force and effect in all circumstances notwithstanding any breach of contract or of any conditions hereof by Australia Post.
12 Severance
12.1 All the terms and conditions of this agreement shall be severable and no provision shall be affected by the invalidity of any other provision except to the extent that such invalidity also renders such other provisions invalid and in the event of the invalidity of any provisions, this agreement shall be interpreted and enforced as if the invalid provision was not contained in this agreement.
13 Variation
13.1 The terms and conditions of this agreement shall not be varied, waived or added to except as agreed by the Mailer and Australia Post in writing and signed on their behalf.
14 Notice
14.1 Any notice required to be served by or under these terms and conditions shall be sufficiently given to the customer if left at or sent by post addressed to the customer at its last known or usual place of address and to Australia Post if sent by post to the appropriate State Administration at its current address.
15 Law
15.1 This agreement is governed by, and shall be construed in accordance with, the laws in force in the State of Victoria and the courts and registries of courts in that State shall have jurisdiction in the event of a dispute.
16 Conditions of Carriage
16.1 This agreement shall not constitute or imply any agreement between Australia Post and the customer (or any undertaking or obligation whatsoever on the part of Australia Post) with respect of the carriage of any postal article. The Australian Postal Corporation Act 1989, the Regulations and the Australia Post Terms and Conditions and other written instructions published by Australia Post shall apply to the carriage of articles issued pursuant to the service except to the extent that they are inconsistent with this agreement.
17 Whole of Agreement
17.1 Subject to clause 1.1 this agreement contains the whole of the agreement between the parties in relation the special service and any representation or warranty made by either party prior to entering into this Agreement shall have no force or effect unless otherwise stated herein. 
Page 1 of 6

