






Employment Contract
Local Government Cadetship 1
xxxxxx  Council

and
Local Government Cadet





Table of Contents
Clause	Page
1	Appointment	1
1.1	Employment	1
1.2	Position	1
1.3	Employment Status	1
1.4	Terms & Conditions of Employment	1

2	Approved Course of Study	2
2.1	Approved Course of Study	2
2.2	Pre-employment conditions	2
2.3	Ongoing requirement of Employment	2

3	Term	2

4	Probation Period	2

5	No Guarantee of Employment	3

6	Duties of Local Government Cadet	3

7	Remuneration	3
7.1	Base salary	3
7.2	Superannuation contributions	3

8	Performance Appraisals and Agreement	4

9	Expenses and other entitlements	4
9.1	General Expenses	4
9.2	Education Expenses	4
9.3	Student membership of IPWEA	5

10	Hours of Duty	5

11	Leave	6
11.1	Leave Entitlements	6
11.2	Study Leave	6

12	Confidentiality	6
12.1	Local Government Cadet's obligations	6
12.2	Survival of obligations	6
12.3	Information	6

13	Intellectual Property	7

14	Location of employment	8

15	Termination	9
15.1	Termination by the Council	9
15.2	Show cause	9
15.3	Termination by the Local Government Cadet	9
15.4	Compensation Sum on Termination	9
15.5	Obligations on termination	10

16	General	10
16.1	Interpretation	10
16.2	Governing law and jurisdiction	10
16.3	Severability	11
16.4	Waiver	11
16.5	Entire Agreement	11

Schedule One - Job Description	13

This Agreement
is made on the                    day of                                  20__  between the following parties:
(i).	xxxxx Council
of  (insert address)
("the Council")
(ii).	[insert name of executive]
of [insert address]
("the Local Government Cadet")
Recitals
A.	The Council has agreed to employ the Local Government Cadet on the terms of this Agreement for the duration of the Local Government Cadet's intended course of study, namely a [insert Local Government Cadet's proposed degree] studied on an external or part-time basis.
B.	The Council will pay the costs associated with the Local Government Cadet's intended course of study, to the extent outlined in this Agreement.

1 Appointment
1.1 Employment
The Council employs the Local Government Cadet on the terms of this Agreement (Employment).  
1.2 Position
The Council appoints the Local Government Cadet as a Local Government Cadet in its Local Government Cadetship Scheme.  
1.3 Employment Status
Subject to the initial period of probation provided for in clause 4, the Local Government Cadet is employed on a maximum term basis.  

1.4 Terms & Conditions of Employment
The terms and conditions of the Employment are as provided for in this Agreement and, as applicable, in the xxxxxxxxxx City Council Certified Agreement (the CA) and the (insert State) Local Government Officers' Award 1998 (the Award) to the extent those instruments continue to operate following "reform commencement" as defined in the Workplace Relations Amendment (Work Choices) Act 2005 (Industrial Instruments).
2 Approved Course of Study
2.1 Approved Course of Study
The Local Government Cadet [has enrolled/will enrol] in a [insert Local Government Cadet's proposed degree] studied on an external or part-time basis at [insert name of University or other higher education institution where the course is to be undertaken] (Approved Course of Study).  
2.2 Pre-employment conditions
The offer of Employment is subject to:
(a) the Local Government Cadet providing the Council with copies of all documents relating to the Local Government Cadet's skills and qualifications, as required by the Council;
(b) the Council being satisfied with all background reports and reference checks on the Local Government Cadet; and
(c) the Local Government Cadet demonstrating that the Local Government Cadet's application for enrolment in the Approved Course of Study has been accepted by the course provider.
2.3 Ongoing requirement of Employment
It is a requirement of the Employment that the Local Government Cadet be enrolled in the Approved Course of Study.  
3 Term
'The Employment begins on [insert date of appointment of the Executive] and continues for the duration of the Local Government Cadet's Approved Course of Study (Term) unless terminated earlier in accordance with this Agreement.  The Term will not be extended to accommodate the failure or repetition of subjects within the Approved Course of Study, except with the agreement of the Council. The anticipated date of completion is [insert date of appointment of the Executive].

4 Probation Period
(a) The Local Government Cadet is required to serve an initial period of probation of six (6) months beginning on the commencement date.
(b) During the period of probation, either party may terminate the employment by providing to the other party 7 days written notice, or in the case of the Council, a payment in lieu of notice or a combination of notice and a payment in lieu of notice.
5 No Guarantee of Employment
The Council offers no guarantee of employment or extension of the employment contract, after the expiration of the Term of this Agreement.
6 Duties of Local Government Cadet
The duties and responsibilities of the Local Government Cadet are described in the job description in Schedule 12. These duties and responsibilities may be varied to allow the Council to respond to changes in its requirements.
The Local Government Cadet is required to carry out all lawful directions issued by his/ her supervisor or manager and may be required to undertake additional short-term training courses at the expense of Council from time to time.
7 Remuneration
7.1 Base salary
During the period of employment, the Local Government Cadet will be paid under the Queensland Local Government Officers' Award 1998 at Level 1.1 which has a base salary of $[insert commencement salary] per annum, by fortnightly payments in arrears credited to a bank account nominated by you.  Salary rates will be reviewed annually, in accordance with the xxxxxx Council Certified Agreement, and the Local Government Cadet's individual performance.
7.2 Superannuation contributions
In addition to the base salary, the Council will contribute a percentage of the Local Government Cadet's base salary to the Local Government Superannuation Scheme operated by the insert superannuation scheme.  In the first 12 months of membership of this Scheme, the Council will contribute the amount required to avoid being liable for the superannuation guarantee charge under the Superannuation Guarantee Charge Act 1992 (Cth) and the Superannuation Guarantee (Administration) Act 1992 (Cth).
After 12 months of the Local Government Cadet's membership of the Scheme, the Council will contribute xxxxxx per cent, and the Local Government Cadet will contribute xxxxxx per cent, of the Local Government Cadet's base salary to the Scheme as required by the (insert State) Local Government Act and subject to the terms of the Industrial Instruments.
8 Performance Appraisals and Agreement
(a) The Local Government Cadet is required to participate and co-operate in the carrying out of performance appraisals and the Local Government Cadet is required to sign an annual performance agreement with Council which outlines the Local Government Cadet's work objectives for the coming year.  Such an agreement will be subject to a quarterly review, or from time to time, at the discretion of the Local Government Cadet's supervisor/ manager.
(b) It is a condition of this Agreement that the Local Government Cadet meet the work objectives outlined in the performance agreement, failure to do so will permit the Council to terminate the Employment in accordance with clause 15.
9 Expenses and other entitlements
9.1 General Expenses
(a) The Council will reimburse the Local Government Cadet for reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Local Government Cadet on Council business.
(b) The Council may require evidence of expenses incurred by the Local Government Cadet.
9.2 Education Expenses
In addition to the payments under clause 7, the Council will pay the Local Government Cadet's Higher Education Contributions (HECS), and other fees such as student union or compulsory University fees that the Local Government Cadet is required to pay in undertaking the Approved Course of Study (Compulsory Education Expenses).   However, the Council will not pay any Compulsory Education Expenses  in relation to:
(1) a repeated subject;
(2) a subject taken in place of a subject which the Local Government Cadet has failed; or 
(3) the Local Government Cadet's late enrolment in a subject.
(b) The Local Government Cadet will pay for the text books required to complete his/ her Approved Course of Study.
(c) Claims for payment of Compulsory Education Expenses must be made within a six (6) month period of time of their incursion.  They must be accompanied by official invoices for the amount of Compulsory Education Expenses owing (or, if reimbursement of Compulsory Education Expenses is required, for official receipts of the amount(s) paid).
(d) The Local Government Cadet must, at the conclusion of a subject in the Local Government Cadet's course of study, provide the Council with an official statement from the University or educational institution concerned indicating passes in the subjects studied, for which a claim for payment of Compulsory Education Expenses has or is being made.
9.3 Student membership of IPWEA
Council will pay the annual student membership fee (if applicable) for IPWEA.
         
10 Hours of Duty
(a) The usual hours of work of the Local Government Cadet will be xxxxx to xxxxx with a 1 hour lunch break.  The timing of lunch breaks is to be flexible.
(b) The Local Government Cadet shall work a 19 day month so that the Local Government Cadet shall have one rostered day off (RDO) in each four week period.  Generally, this RDO will be either on a Monday or a Friday.  Where the RDO falls on a statutory holiday, the Local Government Cadet is entitled to take the preceding day off (in the case of a Friday) or the following day off (in the case of a Monday).
(c) Where requested by the Council, the Local Government Cadet may be required to work on an RDO and such time worked shall be accumulated up to a maximum of five (5) days.
(d) Banked RDOs are to be taken by the employee either in single days or any number of days up to the maximum accrued, at a time mutually agreed between the Council and the Local Government Cadet.  Any further RDOs worked by the Local Government Cadet beyond the maximum of 5 days accrued shall be paid at the applicable overtime rate.
(e) Where the Local Government Cadet works approved overtime, he/ she may chose to be paid at penalty rates or be given time off equivalent to time worked.  All time accrued and taken off is to be mutually agreed between the supervisor and the individual.
(f)	Alternative arrangements may be negotiated at the discretion of the supervisor to accommodate the requirements of Clause 11.2.
(f) For the avoidance of doubt, apart from during any study leave granted to the Local Government Cadet under clause 11.2, the Approved Course of Study (including but not limited to studying, attending lectures, seminars or exams) is to be undertaken in the Local Government Cadet's own time and does not form part of the Local Government Cadet's working hours.
11 Leave
11.1 Leave Entitlements
The Local Government Cadet will be entitled to annual leave, public holidays, personal carers leave and long service leave (if applicable) as provided for in the 'Industrial Instruments, as varied from time to time.
11.2 Study Leave
The Council will, at the discretion of the supervisor/ manager, grant reasonable time off with pay during normal working hours for the Local Government Cadet to attend exams, compulsory residential colleges as provided for in the 'Industrial Instruments, as varied from time to time.
12 Confidentiality
12.1 Local Government Cadet's obligations
The Local Government Cadet must:
(a) keep any Information secret and confidential, except to the extent that the Local Government Cadet is required by law to disclose it;
(b) take all reasonable and necessary precautions to maintain the secrecy and prevent the disclosure of any Information; and
(c) not disclose Information to any third party without first obtaining the written consent of the Council except in the ordinary and proper course of employment with the Council.
12.2 Survival of obligations
The Local Government Cadet's obligations under this clause survive the termination of the Local Government Cadet's employment with the Council.
12.3 Information
"Information" means any information in respect of the Council's business which is not in the public domain and includes, but is not limited to, any document, book, account, process, patent, specification, drawing, design or know-how which is:
(a) supplied by the Council to the Local Government Cadet; or
(b) generated by the Local Government Cadet in the course of performing the Local Government Cadet's obligations. 
13 Intellectual Property
The Council is the owner of any Intellectual Property in the Local Government Cadet's work.  The Local Government Cadet must, upon the Council's request and at the Council's expense, execute all documents and do all acts as may be necessary to obtain the exclusive benefit of the Intellectual Property for the Council.
13.1 Disclose all Materials
The Local Government Cadet must disclose all Materials to the Council.
13.2 Intellectual Property Rights in Materials
(a) The Local Government Cadet:
(i) agrees that the Council will own all rights in and to the Materials including any Intellectual Property Rights which subsist in the Materials or which may be obtained from the Materials, and
(ii) to the extent necessary to give effect to this clause, agrees to assign all of the Intellectual Property Rights in such Materials to the Council.
(b) The Local Government Cadet warrants that to the best of the Local Government Cadet's knowledge that the use of the Materials by the Council will not infringe any Intellectual Property Rights of any third party.
13.3 Moral Rights
To the extent permitted by applicable law the Local Government Cadet unconditionally:
(a) consents to any act or omission that would otherwise infringe the Local Government Cadet's Moral Rights, whether occurring before or after this consent is given; and
(b) waives all of the Local Government Cadet's Moral Rights that the Local Government Cadet may have worldwide,
for the benefit of the Council, its licensees, successors in title and anyone authorised by any of them to do any act comprised in any copyright in the Materials.
13.4 Effect to clause
The Local Government Cadet must, on request by the Council, do all things and sign all documents necessary to give effect to this clause, including without limitation anything necessary to assist the Council to obtain registration or to secure the ownership of any Intellectual Property Rights in any Materials.
13.5 Continuation
The Local Government Cadet's obligations under this clause continue after the Local Government Cadet's Employment ends.
13.6 Definitions
In this clause 13, the following definitions apply:
Intellectual Property Rights means all present and future rights conferred by statute, common law or equity in or in relation to copyright, trade marks, designs, patents, circuit layouts, plant varieties, business and domain names, inventions and confidential information, and other results of intellectual activity in the industrial, commercial, scientific, literary or artistic fields whether or not registrable, registered or patentable.
These rights include:
(a) all rights in all applications to register these rights;
(a) all renewals and extensions of these rights; and
all rights in the nature of these rights, such as Moral Rights.
Materials means works, ideas, concepts, designs, inventions, developments, improvements, systems or other material or information, created, made or discovered by the Local Government Cadet (either alone or with others and whether before or after the date of this document) in the course of the Local Government Cadet's employment or as a result of using the resources of the Council, or in any way relating to any business of the Council.
Moral Rights means rights of integrity of authorship, rights of attribution of authorship, rights not to have authorship falsely attributed and rights of a similar nature, that exist, or may come to exist, anywhere in the world in all Materials made or to be made by the Local Government Cadet in the course of the Employment (including in the course of the Approved Course of Study).  
14 Location of employment
The terms of appointment for employees with xxxxxxx Council, provide for employees to work at any location within the City boundaries. As such, the specific location at which employees are usually based (the place where employees would normally be expected to report for start of work) may be changed by Council to meet operational needs.
15 Termination
15.1 Termination by the Council
The Employment may be terminated at any time by the Council in accordance with the requirements applicable to maximum term contracts under the 'Industrial Instruments.'' 
15.2 Show cause
(a) Where the Local Government Cadet fails to meet the required level of performance or standard of conduct expected of him/her, or fails more than one subject in the Local Government Cadet's Approved Course of Study, the Chief Executive Officer of the Council or his delegate may issue a show cause notice to the Local Government Cadet as to why the Local Government Cadet's employment should not be terminated.
(b) If, in the opinion of the Chief Executive Officer of the Council, the Local Government Cadet's response to the show cause notice is unsatisfactory, the Chief Executive Officer may terminate the Employment in accordance with clause 15.1. 
15.3 Termination by the Local Government Cadet
The Local Government Cadet may terminate the Employment upon the giving of four (4) weeks' notice.
15.4 Compensation Sum on Termination
(a) If the Local Government Cadet's Employment is terminated:
(i) by the Council in accordance with clause 15.2 above; or 
(ii) the Cadet for any reason during the cadetship, 
the Local Government Cadet will pay to the Council 100% of all Compulsory Education Expenses paid by the Council over the previous twelve (12) month period immediately prior to the date of termination.
(b) The Local Government Cadet will be liable to pay the cost (including legal expenses) (if any) incurred by the Chief Executive Officer in pursuing recovery of any amount payable by the Local Government Cadet in accordance with clause 15.4(a).
(c) The amount payable under clause 15.4(a) must be paid to the Chief Executive Officer within 28 days of a written demand being made by the Chief Executive Officer to the Local Government Cadet for payment of those moneys.
(d)	The Local Government Cadet authorises the Council to withhold any amounts payable by the Local Government Cadet under clause 15.4(a) from monies otherwise owed to the Local Government Cadet upon termination of the Employment.
15.5 Obligations on termination
On termination of Employment, the Local Government Cadet must return to the Council all property of the Council including, but not limited to, all books (excluding text books), documents, papers, materials, credit cards, cars and keys held by the Local Government Cadet or under the Local Government Cadet's control.
Subject to clause 13, all study notes and lecture materials supplied to the Local Government Cadet from the university or created by the Local Government Cadet in undertaking the Approved Course of Study may be retained by the Cadet.
16 General
16.1 Interpretation
In this Agreement, headings and boldings are for convenience only and do not affect the interpretation of this Agreement and, unless the context otherwise requires: 
(a) a reference to termination of this Agreement includes a reference to termination of the Local Government Cadet's contract of employment;
(b) words importing the singular include the plural and vice versa; 
(c) words importing a gender include any gender;
(d) other parts of speech and grammatical forms of a word or phrase defined in this Agreement have a corresponding meaning;
(e) an expression importing a natural person includes any company, partnership, joint venture, association, corporation or other body corporate and vice versa;
(f) a reference to any thing (including, but not limited to, any right) includes a part of that thing but nothing in this sub-clause implies that performance of part of an obligation constitutes performance of the obligation;
(g) a reference to a party to a document includes that party's successors and permitted assigns;
(h) a reference to a statute, regulation, proclamation, ordinance or by-law includes all statutes, regulations, proclamations, ordinances or by-laws varying, consolidating or replacing it, and a reference to a statute includes all regulations, proclamations, ordinances and by-laws issued under that statute; and
(i) a reference to a document or Agreement includes all amendments or supplements to, or replacements or novations of, that document or Agreement.
16.2 Governing law and jurisdiction
This Agreement is governed by the laws of (insert State or Territory).
16.3 Severability
A provision of this Agreement which is unenforceable in a jurisdiction is ineffective to the extent of the unenforceability without invalidating the remaining provisions of this Agreement or affecting the validity or enforceability of the provisions in another jurisdiction.
16.4 Waiver
(a) The failure of either party at any time to require performance by the other party of any provision of this Agreement does not affect the party's right to require the performance at any time.
(b) The waiver by either party of a breach of any provision must not be held to be a waiver of any succeeding breach of the provision or a waiver of the provision itself.
16.5 Entire Agreement
This Agreement supersedes all previous Agreements in respect of the Local Government Cadet's employment by the Council and, together with the Industrial Instruments, embodies the entire Agreement between the parties in relation to the Employment.  This Agreement shall be read and interpreted in conjunction with the Industrial Instruments.  Where there is inconsistency between this Agreement and the Industrial Instruments then the Industrial Instruments will prevail to the extent of the inconsistency.


Executed as an Agreement:

Signed for and on behalf of xxxxx Council

SIGNED on behalf of the ................Council	)
this                       day of	)
200 .... in the presence of:	)	__________________________
(Delegate of the Council)

_______________________________	
              (Witness)

Signed by the Local Government Cadet

SIGNED by	)
this                         day of	)
200 .... in the presence of:	)	__________________________
	(Assisted Student)
	)
_______________________________	)
              (Witness)



Schedule One - Job Description

IPWEA acknowledges the assistance of Caloundra City Council in the preparation of this document.  This document has been prepared without any reference to "bond" conditions, which Councils may wish to impose.  It should be treated as a guideline only.
2    See separate template document for job description formats.

??

??

??

??


                      IPWEA National Skills Shortage Project                                                                                                                       Section 5



 (c) IPWEA 2006                                                                                                                                                                  July 2006     Page 5. i                           
                                                                                                                                                                                    




Freehill Hollingdale & Page BRIC1\i NSSP Template -  Cadetship Agreement	10 April 2011 (16:12)	page 1



                              
                         IPWEA National Skills Shortage Project                                                                                               Section 5

Clause	Page

 (c) IPWEA 2006	                                                                                                                                     July 2006       Page 5. iii                                  
                                                                                                                                                                    


                              
                         IPWEA National Skills Shortage Project                                                                                               Section 5


(c) IPWEA 2006   	                                                                                                                                     July 2006      Page 5. ii               
                                                                                                                                                                    




                              
                         IPWEA National Skills Shortage Project                                                                                               Section 5


(c) IPWEA 2006     	                                                                                                                                      July 2006     Page 5. xvi                                    
                                                                                                                                                                  


                              
                         IPWEA National Skills Shortage Project                                                                                               Section 5
 

 (c) IPWEA 2006 	                                                                                                                                    July 2006      Page 5. iv                               
                                                                                                                                                                     


