DEFINITIONS in these terms of trade - 
"Bad Debts" has the meaning ascribed to that term in the Code;
"Benefit Accredited" means when a Supplier elects to appoint the Business to utilise the Business' billing facility with the Credit Service for the benefit of the Supplier for its Produce related debts to be recovered under the credit approval and clearing house service, billing service and other associated service operated by the Credit Service and "Benefit Accreditation" has a corresponding meaning.
"Business" means the entity described above or related Persons deemed to be in association with the Business.
"Business Day" means a day that is not a Saturday, Sunday or a designated holiday in the State in which the Business is located.
"Code" means the Horticulture Code of Conduct contained in the Trade Practices (Horticulture Code of Conduct) Regulations 2006 (Cth).
 "Credit Service" means the credit approval and clearing house service, billing service and other associated services provided by The Queensland Chamber of Fruit and Vegetable Industries Cooperative Limited.
"Default Commission" means an amount to be determined by the Business in its sole discretion from time to time under these Terms being the percentage amount of the Sale Proceeds set out in the Schedule.
"Expenses" means those amounts and items referred to in clauses 11 and 33.b.
"Inspection Certificate" means a report prepared by an independent authority or third party assessor who is qualified by experience and/or education to declare the Produce unfit for human consumption, unsuitable for sale or not meeting a particular standard.
"Including" or similar expressions are not words of limitation.
"Commission" means the amount determined by the Business in its sole discretion from time to time under these Terms to be charged by the Business as its commission on Sales, with such commission being the percentage amount of the Sale Proceeds set out in the Schedule.
"Credit Service Benefit Fee" means the fee payable by a Supplier to become Benefit Accredited under the usual terms and conditions applied by the Credit Service from time to time;
 "Nursery Products" includes:
a. trees, shrubs, plants, seeds, bulbs, corns and tubers (other than edible tubers); 
b. propagating material and plant tissue cultures, grown for ornamental purposes or for producing fruits, vegetables, nuts or cut flowers and foliage; and
c. cut flowers and foliage.
"Person" shall include an incorporated body or other entity.  If a party consists of more than one Person then these terms of trading bind them jointly and each of them severally and includes the party's executors, administrators, successors and permitted assigns.
"Produce" means unprocessed: 
a. fruits;
b. vegetables, including mushrooms and other eligible fungi;
c. nuts;
d. herbs;
e. other edible plants;
but does not include nursery products.
"Produce Work" has the meaning ascribed to that term in clause 8.
"Returns" has the meaning ascribed to that term in clause 32.
"Reporting Period" means the reporting period for the Statement specified in the Schedule.
"Sale" means a sale of Produce by the Business to a third party buyer.
"Sale Proceeds" means the proceeds of a Sale payable in respect of Produce but does not include any payment by the Credit Service out of any reserve fund operated by the Credit Service
"Supplier" means any producer or other Person who delivers Produce or has Produce delivered to the Business in accordance with these Terms.
"Week" means the period from Saturday to Friday inclusive.
Any requirement which must be done on a specified day which is not a Business Day, then such act must be done on the next Business Day.
TERMS AND CONDITIONS
General
1. This Agreement (Terms) as described is effective from the date of commencement of the Code (Commencement Date)  and shall apply to all transactions between the Business and the Supplier on or after the Commencement Date unless:
a. by specific written notice to the contrary; or
b. these Terms are replaced by another set of Terms at a later date; or
c. the transaction is not a transaction that would be covered by the Code.
2. The Supplier agrees to appoint the Business, and the Business accepts the appointment, as the agent for the Supplier (within the meaning of the Code) for the purposes of procuring a Sale, disposition or other dealing with the Produce subject to these Terms. 
3. The Supplier covenants and warrants that: 
a. they have all right, title and interest in and to the Produce; 
b. upon a Sale, title will pass to the third party buyer clear of all encumbrances, claims and other adverse interests; and
c. the Supplier is the grower of the Produce.
Supply of Produce
4. The costs of delivery of Produce to the Business shall be borne by the Supplier, unless otherwise agreed to in writing by the Business.
5. Despite delivery of the Produce, all rights, title and interest in the Produce and the risk in relation to the Produce shall remain with the Supplier at all times. 
Business to Procure Sale
6. Upon delivery of the Produce, the Business shall use reasonable endeavours to procure a sale of the Produce.
7. In discharging its obligations pursuance to clause 6, the Business is expressly authorised by the Supplier to:
a. set the sale price of the Produce with third party buyers;
b. make representations to third party buyers regarding the description, Product Characteristics and qualities of the Produce, provided always that such representations reasonably accord with the Product Characteristics or are otherwise reasonable in the circumstances;
c. enter into, as agent for the Supplier, a contract for the Sale of the Produce with a third party buyer, with the Supplier as principal;
d. receive and hold the Sale Proceeds;
e. incur costs in respect of the Produce, to be borne or discharged by the Supplier, including, without limitation those charges described in clause 8;
f. to accept Returns in accordance with clause 32;
g. deduct the charges under clause 11 from the Sale Proceeds;
h. remit the Sale Proceeds to the Supplier less the deductions in accordance with clause 11;
i. enter into the arrangements contemplated by Clause 36, with the Credit Service with respect to the payment of, receipt, collection or recovery of the Sale Proceeds (or Bad Debts) from third party buyers of Produce;
8. For the avoidance of doubt, the Business shall be entitled to repack, rework, treat, dip, store, transport or otherwise deal with the Produce (Produce Work) if the Business considers, in its sole discretion acting at all times reasonably, that such Produce Work will: 
a. enhance the probability of sale of the Produce; or
b. increase the potential Sale Proceeds of the Produce.
Produce not sold
9. In the event that the Business is unable to procure a Sale of some or all of the Produce, then the Business is deemed to have provided a valid Rejection Notice in respect of that Produce and clause 29 to clause 31 shall apply.
Business Payments and Reporting Obligations
10. The Business agrees to make payments to the Supplier in accordance with the following method -
a. Payment will be made no later than the number of Business Days, as advised in the Schedule to these Terms, from the end of the Week during which a Sale of relevant Produce is made.
b. Such payments shall be by cheque or direct bank deposit to the credit of the Supplier as specified in writing by the Supplier.
11. Where clause 35.a applies or the Business otherwise receives the Sale Proceeds or Bad Debts on behalf of the Supplier, the Business shall pay the amount of the Sale Proceeds to the Supplier after deducting the following amounts:
a. the Commission and in addition, if applicable, the Default Commission.
b. any third party delivery or freight costs, unloading fees and charges actually incurred by the Business with respect to the Produce;
c. any costs actually incurred (including reasonable internal costs) by the Business as a consequence of any sorting and repacking of the Produce by the Business or any other third party, including without limitation Produce Work;
d. any other amount which the Supplier is liable to pay pursuant to these Terms, including under clause 29 to clause 31;  
e. any other authorised deductions, including levies and fees for service payable under State or Commonwealth legislation or any voluntary arrangement; 
f. Goods and Service Tax in respect of any item for which a Tax Invoice has been issued; 
g. any amount due to the Business under clause 42 or clause 43; 
h. the Credit Service Benefit Fee if applicable under Clause 36.a.ii; and
i. any cost of collecting the Sale Proceeds or Bad Debts (in accordance with these Terms) including fees and charges imposed by the Credit Service.
12. The Supplier acknowledges that where any of the amounts referred to in clauses 11.b to 11.i are referable to other Produce (whether or not Produce of the Supplier), the Business may determine, acting reasonably, the proportion that those amounts relate to the relevant Produce for the purposes of these Terms.
13. Save as otherwise set out in these Terms -
a. The Business is only entitled to the Commission or Default Commission in the event that a Sale occurs; and
b. The Business is entitled to deduct the amounts referred to in clauses 11.b to 11.f from Sale Proceeds held, whether or not a Sale has occurred in respect of relevant Produce.
14. The Business will provide a statement to the Supplier containing the following details, covering the Reporting Period (Statement) - 
a. Supplier's reference or shipping note number; 
b. Description of the type and  quality of Produce Sold;
c. Details of the quantity of Produce Sold; 
d. The date or dates of the Sales of Produce;
e. Details of any amounts deducted (or to be deducted) by the Business from the Sale Proceeds;
f. The time and date on which the produce was Delivered to the Business;
g. Details of any Produce not Sold during the Reporting Period;
h. Details of any Produce not Sold during the Reporting Period but destroyed by the Business and details of the costs of destruction;
i. Details of any Produce not Sold during the Reporting Period but held by the Business at the end of the Reporting Period;
j. Reasons why any Produce Delivered during the Reporting Period was not Sold during the Reporting Period;
k. Details of any non-complying Produce that is disposed of, or otherwise dealt with, in accordance with clauses 27, 28, 29, 30 and 31 of these Terms; 
l. A copy of any relevant Inspection Certificate obtained in accordance with clause 29.c.ii of these Terms. 
The Statement must be given to the Supplier within such number of days following the end of the relevant Reporting Period as identified in the Schedule.
15. The Business will issue a Tax Invoice to the Supplier in respect of any item for which Goods and Services Tax is chargeable.
16. The Business reserves the right to withdraw from making payments on behalf of the Supplier or to charge a fee for service in respect of such payments.
Title and Risk
17. The Parties acknowledge that at all times, despite the delivery of the Produce under these Terms, title and risk in respect of the Produce shall remain with the Supplier. 
18. The Produce will be at the Supplier's risk until title to the Produce passes to the third party buyer in accordance with these Terms whereupon the third party buyer will assume risk.
19. Until such time as the title to the Produce passes to the third party buyer under Clause 18, the Business must exercise all reasonable care and skill in handling and storage to ensure that the Products remain of the highest quality possible
Supplier Obligations
20. The Supplier agrees to provide documentation that is suitable to the Business that accurately describes the quantity, variety, size, class, description and characteristics of the Produce, including containers, and expected delivery date of the Produce prior to delivery to the Business.
21. The Supplier warrants that:
a. the Produce dispatched to the Business is fit for human consumption and complies with any statutory regulations including food safety, packaging and/or labelling; and
b. it has complied with the Trade Measurement Act 1990 (Qld) with respect to the Produce. 
22. The Supplier warrants that the Produce dispatched to the Business is fit for its purpose and in every case - is packed or presented and complies with the written product specifications including quality and shelf life (Delivery Requirements) provided by the Business to the Supplier from time to time or as are otherwise agreed to in writing between the Business and the Supplier (Business Requirements).
.

23. The Supplier must not dispatch Produce to the Business that:
a. does not comply with the Product Specifications; or
b. has not been solicited by the Business.
24. The Supplier agrees to implement and maintain an industry recognised HACCP based food safety and quality system that is subject to an annual third party audit. Copies of any current certification must be sent to the Business.
25. The Supplier agrees to supply details of their registered Australian Business Number (ABN) prior to any payment being made by the Business.
Complying and Non-Complying Produce
26. The Supplier must ensure that Produce supplied to the Business complies with clauses 3, 20, 21 and 22 or that Produce will be treated as non-complying Produce.
27. Where these Terms provide that Produce is to be treated as non-complying Produce, then the Business shall be entitled within TWO (2) Business Days of the later of: 
a. the Produce becoming treated under clause 34 as non-complying Produce; or 
b. receipt of the Produce by the Business, 
to elect (the day the election is made being the Non-Compliance Day) to:
c. reject all of the Produce;
d. accept all of the Produce; or
e. accept part of the Produce and reject the balance of the Produce.
28. Where the Business elects to accept all or part of the Produce under clause 27, or fails to give a notice under clause 29 to reject all or part of the Produce (Accepted Produce), then:
a.  these Terms generally shall apply to require the Business procure a Sale of the Accepted Produce in accordance with clause 6; and
b. except where clause 34 applies - the Business shall be entitled to charge the Default Commission in addition to the Commission.
29. Where the Business elects to reject all or part of the Produce (the Rejected Produce) under clause 27, then subject only to Clause 29c:
a. the Business shall not be required to procure a Sale of the Rejected Produce in accordance with clause 6; 
b. the Business will immediately advise the Supplier by telephone, fax, e-mail or other electronic means of the rejection;
c. within TWO (2) Business Days of the Non-Compliance Day, the Business will advise the Supplier in writing of  the rejection and the reasons for such rejection and request that the Supplier advise as to whether the Supplier:
i. wishes to retake possession of the Produce; or
ii. requires an independent inspection and assessment of the condition of the Produce to determine whether an Inspection Certificate should be issued at the Supplier's cost; or
iii. wishes to make other arrangements for the storage or warehousing of the Produce , sale or resale of the Produce or its removal from the Business premises.
30. Despite anything else in these Terms, the Business may elect to destroy and dispose of the Produce, or deliver the Produce to the Supplier if:
a. the Supplier does not respond within TWENTY FOUR (24) hours of notification in accordance with Clause 29.c;
b. the Supplier fails to retake possession of the Produce within FIVE (5) Business Days of the Supplier indicating an intention to do so  under clause 29.c;
The supplier authorises and confirms, by the entry into these Terms, any such action by the Business.
31. Where clause 30 applies any destruction, disposal and/or delivery of Produce is at the Supplier's expense. 
Returns
32. In the event that, following a Sale, Produce is returned to the Business:
a. the Business will have a discretion as to whether or not to accept the return of such Produce from the Buyer whether it be for any reason whatsoever (including without limitation where in the opinion of the Business not to allow the Buyer to return the Produce would potentially damage the commercial relations with the would be Buyer) (Return); or
b. the Business shall contact the Supplier for further instructions in relation to how to deal with the returned produce as soon as practicable. Where the Supplier provides instructions to the Business to accept the return of the Produce this shall be deemed to be a Return for the purposes of these Terms. 
[Strike out either (a) or (b) above as applicable]   In the event that neither (a) or (b) are struck out, (a) will apply.]
33. Following a Return:
a. the Business shall provide written notice to the Supplier within TWO (2) Business Days of the Return;
b. any costs associated with the delivery, repacking, reworking or storage of the Produce shall be borne (or reimbursed, as the case may be) by the Supplier;
c. for the avoidance of doubt, the Supplier shall not be entitled to any part of the Sale Proceeds in respect of the Sale the subject of the Return, and if already paid, shall re-pay those funds to the Business, for the purposes of re-imbursement to the relevant buyer the subject of the Return.
d. the Business is not entitled to the Commission (or Default Commission) in respect of the Sale the subject of the Return.
34. Produce Returned under clause 32 will be treated as non-complying Produce and subject to clauses14, 27, 28, 29, 30 and 31 of these Terms.
Debts and Credit Service
35. Where: 
a. the Schedule indicates that the Supplier elects to become Benefit Accredited , then the provisions in clauses 36 to 43 shall apply; 
b. otherwise:
i. the Business will not pursue recovery of the Sale Proceeds or Bad Debts;
ii. the Supplier shall solely bear the onus of recovering the Sale Proceeds or any Bad Debt; and
iii. to the extent that the Sale Proceeds or Bad Debts are recovered by the Supplier directly, the Supplier must remit the amount that the Business would otherwise be entitled to deduct under clause 11, within TWO Business Days after the recovery of the funds by the Supplier. 
36. The Business is expressly authorised under these Terms on behalf of the Supplier:
a. to the extent that the Supplier is not already Benefit Accredited, apply for the Supplier to be Benefit Accredited, including without limitation by:
i. signing an application for Benefit Accreditation or otherwise agreeing, on behalf of the Supplier, to be bound by the standard terms and conditions imposed by the Credit Service from time to time for persons seeking Benefit Accreditation; and
ii. paying on behalf of the Supplier, the Credit Service Benefit Fee; 
b. to do all things necessary to arrange for the Credit Service to recover the Sale Proceeds from third party buyers;
c. to do all things necessary to arrange for the Credit Service to recover the Bad Debt relating to Produce; 
d. to receive and hold any funds received from the Sale Proceeds, subject to these Terms;
e. to settle or compromise or cause the Credit Service to settle or compromise any Bad Debt with any third party buyer with respect to Produce, provided always that the terms of such settlement or compromise are reasonable in the circumstances; and
f. without limiting clauses 36a to e, engage the Credit Service on its usual terms and conditions and on the terms contained in clause 41 below.
g. where the Sale Proceeds or Bad Debts are ineligible or unable to be pursued through the Credit Service then the Business is authorised on behalf of the Supplier to do all things necessary to recover the Sale Proceeds and Bad Debts relating to the Produce.
37. Where the Supplier is Benefit Accredited, the Business will pursue Sale Proceeds and Bad Debts that are ineligible to be pursued through the Credit Service.
38. Where the Business has arranged for the Credit Service or the Business seeks to recover Sale Proceeds or Bad Debts under clause 36, the Supplier's rights to seek to recover such Sale Proceeds are suspended, subject to clause 39.
39. If the Credit Service or the Business is unable to recover the Sale Proceeds, Bad Debt or amount of any settlement or compromise under clause 36 within XX Business Days following a Sale, then (unless otherwise agreed to in writing by the Supplier) the Business' authority under clause 36 shall be revoked, and the Supplier shall bear the onus of recovering any Bad Debt.
40. The Business will not pursue Bad Debts other than as specified under clauses 35 to 39.
41. The Supplier acknowledges and agrees that: 
a. no relationship will exist between the Supplier and the Credit Service other than as contemplated by clauses 35 to 39; and
b. the Credit Service will have no liability to the Grower with respect to services undertaken by the Credit Service with respect to Sale Proceeds or Bad Debts; and 
c. the Credit Service will have no liability to the Grower in respect of the Sale Proceeds or Bad Debts, other than as specified under clauses 35 to 39.
42. In the event that Sale Proceeds or a Bad Debt are not recovered in full (as contemplated by these Terms) by the Business or the Supplier by no later than XX Business Days following a Sale (Bad Debt End Date), then:
a. the Supplier shall not be entitled to the amount paid to the Supplier under Clause 11 in respect of the Sale (Paid Amount);
b. the Business shall not be entitled to the Commission (or Default Commission as the case may be) in respect of the Sale;
c. the Supplier must repay to the Business as a debt immediately due and owing, the Paid Amount; and
d. despite clauses 42a and b, where part of a Bad Debt has been recovered by the Business (Recovered Amount):
i. the Supplier shall be entitled to so much of the Paid Amount as the proportion as the Recovered Amount bears to the Bad Debt; and
ii. the Business shall be entitled to so much of the Commission (or Default Commission as the case may be)  as the proportion as the Recovered Amount bears to the Bad Debt.
43. Any payments to be made by the Supplier or the Business under clause 42 shall be:
a. able to be set off by the payer against any other amounts due to the payer under clause 42  or these Terms generally; and
b. paid by the Supplier or the Business as the case may be by no later than FIVE (5) Business Days after the Bad Debt End Date.
Sales to Related Parties of Business
44. For the purposes of clause 18(b) of the Code, the Business agrees not to procure a Sale of any Produce other than on an arm's length basis, unless the Supplier has consented to the transaction.
General
45. Subject to the requirements of Paragraphs 22 and 23 of the Code being met, the Business agrees to provide to the Supplier information referred to in Paragraphs 22 and 23 of the Code.  The Supplier is not entitled to any other information or documentation from the Business save as set out in these Terms or the Code.
Insurance
46. The Business shall not be obliged to keep insurances in respect of goods in their legal and physical control.  If the Business does have insurance, the Business' insurer, the maximum amount of claims covered by the Business' insurance and the defined events covered by the insurance including fire, theft and accidental damage and other deterioration and/or inherit loss of any kind (Insurance), is set out in the Schedule. The Business will not be liable for loss or damage to the Produce arising from any cause or event outside of the control of the Business.  If the details of Insurance in the Schedule are blank, the Business does not hold Insurance. 
Limit on Claims
47. The Business shall not be liable in respect of any claim by the Supplier unless such claim is received in writing within the number of Business Days, as advised in the Schedule to these Terms, from the issue by the Business of the Statement in respect of the relevant Produce. 
48. The Business will not be liable for any consequential loss to the Supplier or any other Person howsoever caused.
Dispute Resolution
49. In the case of a dispute that may arise under these Terms:
a. the person that the Business should contact in that event, on behalf of the Supplier (Supplier's Contact) is set out in the Schedule;
b. the person that the Supplier should contact in that event, on behalf of the Business (Business' Contact) is set out in the Schedule;
c. the Business and the Supplier shall use the following to resolve the dispute; 
i. if required by the Business - the Business' own Internal Dispute Resolution Procedure; and/or
ii. the Brisbane Produce Market Dispute Resolution Procedure; and/or 
iii. the dispute resolution procedures under the Code.
50. The Supplier indemnifies the Business against any liability, loss, expense, or demand from or arising from any false, misleading, deceptive or misdescriptive representation or statement, made by the Supplier, in respect of the Produce. 
No Waiver
51. Any time or other indulgence that the Business may grant to the Supplier shall not affect the rights of the Business except to the extent that the Business expressly waives such term, or part thereof, in writing. 
Governing Law
52. These Terms are governed by and are to be construed in accordance with the laws in force in the State of (insert State of Business's address). Each party submits to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of the courts of (insert state of Business's address). 
Severance
53. If any provision of these Terms shall be or be determined to be illegal, invalid, void or voidable the legality or validity of the remainder of these Terms will not be affected and will continue in full force and effect.
Varying these Terms
54. These Terms can only be varied by agreement in writing between the Business and the Supplier.
Terminating these Terms
55. These Terms may be terminated by the Business or the Supplier by providing notice in writing to the other party (Termination Notice).  
56. Any such termination:
a. except where clause 58 applies - Shall apply prospectively to prevent any despatch of Produce by the Supplier under these Terms after the Termination Notice but shall not apply to any Produce despatched by the Supplier (whether delivered to the Business or not) before the Termination Notice; and
b. where clause 58 applies - Shall apply prospectively to prevent any Sale of Produce in accordance with these Terms after the Termination Notice but shall not apply to any Sale of Produce before the Termination Notice; and
c. will not affect any accrued rights or obligations of the Business or the Supplier prior to the Termination Notice.
57. Following termination, the Supplier and the Business shall be entitled to pursue any other claim they may have against the other which have accrued or arisen up to the date of termination.
58. Despite anything else in these Terms, these Terms may be terminated by either the Business or the Supplier within the cooling-off period under the Code, and in such event:
a. clause 56 and clause 57 shall apply; and
b. any payment, of money or other valuable consideration, that was made for the purposes of, and directly related to, a Sale of Produce that would have occurred after the Termination Notice (Trade), must be returned to the party who made the payment within 14 days of the Termination Notice (less reasonable expenses incurred under these Terms for the purpose of, and directly relating to the Trade).
   HPA  V3 - AGENT   (18/10/07)
	

   HPA  V3 - AGENT   (18/10/07)
	-2-

