
UNIVERSITY OF QUEENSLAND ENTERPRISE AGREEMENT (ACADEMIC STAFF) 2006 



1 - TITLE 

This is a Union Collective Agreement and shall be referred to as the University of Queensland Enterprise Agreement (Academic Staff) 2006.


2 - ARRANGEMENT 

A - APPLICATION AND OPERATION OF THE AGREEMENT

1 	Title
2 	Arrangement
3 	Definitions
4 	Application
5 	Date and Period of Operation
6 	Awards and Agreements
7	Protected Award Matters
8 	Purpose of Agreement and Consultation
9 	Availability of Agreement
10 	Codification of Policies Relevant to the Employment of Academic Staff

B - SALARIES AND RELATED MATTERS

11	Minimum Standards for Academic Levels
12 	Remuneration
13 	Superannuation
14 	Clinical Loadings and State Supplementary Loadings 
15 	Senior Staff Appointments
16 	Teaching Opportunities - Postgraduate Students

C - STAFF DEVELOPMENT AND RELATED MATTERS 

17 	Performance Review
18 	Staff Development
19 	Academic Staff Supervision
20 	Supervisory Training

D - DISCIPLINARY ACTION OR TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT MATTERS

21 	Disciplinary Action or Termination of Employment
22	Termination during Probationary Employment
23 	Unsatisfactory Performance
24 	Misconduct/Serious Misconduct
25 	Medical Conditions Affecting Performance

E - CONSULTATION ON WORKLOADS AND MAJOR CHANGE

26 	Workloads
27 	Job Security
28 	Managing Major Change
29 	Voluntary Early Retirement

F - LEAVE

30 	Leave

G - OTHER MATTERS

31 	Equal Employment Opportunity and Anti-Discrimination
32 	Indigenous Employment 
33 	Academic Freedom 
34 	Modes and Types of Employment
35 	Dispute Settlement Procedures
36	Termination of Employment
37 	No Extra Claims

SCHEDULES

Schedule IA	Relevant Policies
Schedule IB 	Codified Policies
Schedule II 	Minimum Standard for Academic Levels
Schedule III 	Salaries
Schedule IV	Duties and Pay Calculation of Casual Academic Staff


3 - DEFINITIONS 

In this Agreement unless inconsistent within the context of the subject matter:

3.1	"Academic staff" shall mean all persons employed by the University, including Research Academic staff, other than:
(a) General staff; or
(b) Language Teachers in the Institute of Continuing and TESOL Education.

3.2	"Academic Staff Consultative Committee (ASCC)" shall mean the Committee established in accordance with 8.2.  

3.3	"Consultation" shall mean meaningful discussion of issues and provision of information in the spirit of the description provided by Commissioner G. Smith: "Consultation is not perfunctory advice on what is about to happen.  Consultation is providing the individual, or other relevant persons, with a bona fide opportunity to influence the decision maker. Consultation is not joint decision making or even a negative or frustrating barrier to the prerogative of management to make decisions.  Consultation allows the decision making process to be informed, particularly as it may effect the employment prospects of individuals." [CPSU vs Vodafone Network Pty Ltd -PR912122]

	In this agreement "consultation with staff" will be taken to mean:
* Consultation with a single staff member and where they so choose, a representative; and
* Consultation with a group of staff, and where they so choose, representative(s) of that group.

3.4	"Gross salary" shall mean the total dollar figure determined for the salary of a person at the particular scale by the relevant industrial instrument(s), prior to any deductions nominated by the staff member or the packaging of any remuneration benefits. Employer superannuation contributions shall not constitute part of 'gross salary' as defined.

3.5	"Misconduct" is conduct which is not serious misconduct but is none the less conduct which is unsatisfactory.

3.6	"NTEU Branch" shall mean the University of Queensland Branch of the National Tertiary Education Industry Union.

3.7	"Organisational change" shall mean a process of major change in an organisational unit which significantly affects reporting relationships or which significantly varies the duties and/or workloads of more than one position. 

3.8 "Relevant Senior Executive" shall mean such senior officer of the University as designated by the Vice-Chancellor to undertake responsibility for academic staff relations and related processes

3.9 "Representative" can be another member of staff and/or, at the choice of the staff member(s) involved, a nominee of a party to this Agreement provided that the representative is not a currently practising solicitor or barrister.  A staff member, should they so choose, may request a representative for any matter that affects them.

3.10	"Restructuring" shall mean a process of major change in an organisational unit which involves the need for reduction in the number of staff, with the possibility that retrenchments might result.

3.11	"Senior Deputy Vice-Chancellor" shall mean the Senior Deputy Vice-Chancellor or such senior officer of the University designated by the Vice-Chancellor.

3.12	"Senior Executive or Senior Academic Positions" shall mean those senior academic positions which have predominantly a responsibility for administration and management of significant budgets and/or programs, generally encompassing more than one discipline or academic unit, including Deputy Vice-Chancellors, Executive Deans and such other positions at a similar level.  

3.13	"Serious Misconduct" is a serious dereliction of the duties required of an academic office or wilful or deliberate behaviour which demonstrates that the academic is not willing or is unable to carry out his or her duties or which constitutes a serious impediment to the carrying out of an academic's duties or to an academic's colleagues carrying out their duties. Examples of serious misconduct include behaviour that causes imminent and serious risk to the health, or safety, of a person, theft, fraud, assault, gross behaviour in dealing with students or other staff, sexual harassment, racism, bullying or intimidation, being intoxicated at work, refusing to carry out a lawful and reasonable instruction in respect of a significant matter.

3.14	"Supervisor" shall mean the Head of the organisational unit or other senior staff member so designated by the Vice-Chancellor.

3.15	"Termination of employment" means termination of employment at the initiative of the University.

3.16	"The Act" shall mean the Workplace Relations Act 1996.

3.17	"The University" means the University of Queensland.

3.18	"Union" means the National Tertiary Education Industry Union.

3.19	"Vice-Chancellor" shall mean the Vice Chancellor or his or her nominee.


4 - APPLICATION 

4.1 	This Agreement shall be binding according to its terms upon:

(i) 	the National Tertiary Education Industry Union, and

(ii) 	the University of Queensland in relation to all members of the academic staff, including research only academic staff, who are eligible to be members of the National Tertiary Education Industry Union whether members or not, and
(iii) 	the academic staff of the University of Queensland, including research only academic staff.

4.2  	The University may enter into Australian Workplace Agreements (AWAs) with its employees. Those AWAs may operate either to the exclusion of this certified agreement or prevail over the terms of this Agreement to the extent of any inconsistency, as specified in each AWA.

4.3. 	At the time of offering an AWA, the University will offer a genuine and informed choice between the AWA and this Agreement. The University will provide the staff member with a summary of this agreement and access to this Agreement.

4.4 	At the time of offering an AWA, the University will advise any staff member or prospective staff member of their right to appoint a Bargaining Agent and will allow the staff member or prospective staff member at least 14 or 7 days respectively to consider the AWA as required.


5 - DATE AND PERIOD OF OPERATION 

This Agreement shall come into force on and from the date of lodgement with the Office of the Employment Advocate and shall remain in force until 9 May 2008.


6 - AWARDS AND AGREEMENTS

This Agreement will wholly displace all previous awards and certified agreements relating to the academic staff of the University.


7 - PROTECTED AWARD MATTERS


This Agreement deals explicitly with all protected award matters contained in the relevant awards applicable to the University. 

This Agreement excludes rest breaks, allowances, loadings, overtime, penalty rates and any other matter specified in the Workplace Relations Act 1996 or the Regulations as amended from time to time.  This Agreement modifies annual leave loading and observance of public holidays in accordance with Clause 30.1 and Clause 30.2 of this Agreement.  These exclusions and modifications apply from the date of approval of this Agreement and to any protected award matter arising from a rationalisation or variation of the award in the future.    


8 - PURPOSE OF AGREEMENT AND CONSULTATION

8.1 	The purpose of the Agreement is to: 
* enhance the efficiency and productivity of the University;
* provide opportunities for consultation directly with employees and where they so choose, their representatives to ensure they are informed about workplace matters affecting them;
* enhance the University's ability to operate flexibly and to respond to change; and in so doing
* provide opportunity for the academic staff to share in the results of these improvements through increased salaries and improved working conditions.

8.2 	Key mechanisms for communication and consultation include but are not limited to:

(a) An Academic Staff Consultative Committee (ASCC) which shall consist of: 
* Chair: Relevant Senior Executive;
* up to three other representatives of management;
* two academic staff members elected by and from the continuing and fixed-term academic staff of the university, including research-only staff; and 
* two members nominated by the NTEU Branch.

(b) Faculty/Division, School/Unit and team level meetings.

8.3 	Alongside other avenues of consultation, the ASCC will provide for direct consultation with employees and where they so choose their representatives, and the University on workplace relations and human resource matters.

8.4 	In the event of a casual vacancy of an ASCC elected staff representative a replacement representative will be duly elected in accordance with 8.2(a).


9 - AVAILABILITY OF AGREEMENT 

A copy of this Agreement shall be accessible via the web under the University of Queensland's homepage.


10 - UNIVERSITY POLICIES AND PROCEDURES IN RELATION TO THIS AGREEMENT

10.1	This Agreement focuses on principles relating to staff conditions of employment and entitlements.  The parties to this Agreement have sought to simplify the construction of this Agreement while ensuring that staff do not lose entitlements.  The Agreement aims to be simple and easily understood and to provide sufficient flexibility for the University and its staff to apply these principles as required by local operating conditions across its diverse operations.  More extensive detail about the scope and operations of the matters referred to is found in the Handbook of University Policies and Procedures (HUPP).

10.2	While not forming part of this Agreement, Schedule 1A policies in force at the date of lodgement of the Agreement are designed to give effect and detailed support for the matters covered in the Enterprise Agreement (Academic Staff) 2006 and are those approved by the University Senate on 28 July 2006 or the dates as shown in Schedule 1A. University management will be able to initiate changes to those policies in accordance with 10.4. below.

10.3	The parties to this Agreement acknowledge that it is established custom and practice within the University that consultation on academic staff matters take place with the academic staff, including through the ASCC.  It is agreed that issues relevant to the employment of academic staff will be codified as follows:

10.3.1	The policies set out in Schedules 1A and 1B of this Agreement shall be read in conjunction with this Agreement but do not form part of the Agreement. Nothing in this Agreement shall be taken as incorporating as a term of this Agreement, any policy, procedures or guideline referred to in this Agreement.

10.3.2.      The University will make a specific decision, taking into account the views of the ASCC and affected staff, as to whether any new policies established after lodgement of this Agreement should be added to those listed in Schedules 1A and 1B.

10.4	No additions, deletions or any other changes (that have the effect of altering employment conditions) will be made to the policies as agreed without reasonable notice and prior consultation with the ASCC and affected staff.


B - SALARIES AND RELATED MATTERS


11 - MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR ACADEMIC LEVELS

The minimum standards for academic levels set out in Schedule II shall be used as a guide to determine the initial appointment salary set out in Schedule III for academic staff. After initial appointment, any progression through the levels in Schedule II shall be in accordance with the University's merit based promotion process as set out in Sections 5.41.5, 5.80.12 and 5.80.14 of the Handbook of University Policies and Procedures.

12 - REMUNERATION 

12.1 	The salaries applicable to academic staff are set out Schedule III.

12.2 	This Agreement provides for the payment of the following salary increases:

* 1.5% as at 1 July 2003 	(previously paid)	
* 4% as at 1 January 2004 	(previously paid)	
* 3% as at 1 January 2005 	(previously paid)	
* 2% as at 1 July 2005 		(previously paid)	
* 3% as at 1 January 2006	(previously paid)	
* 1.5% as at 2 April 2006 	(previously paid)	
* 4% as at 1 January 2007
* 3% as at 1 January 2008

12.3 	Salary Packaging

12.3.1 	Depending upon the selected benefit staff will be eligible to sacrifice a cash component of their gross salary as determined by Australian Taxation Office and the University of Queensland policy document covering "salary packaging". Salary packaging policy documents available from the University of Queensland website detail the guidelines concerning the provision of benefits available to staff.

12.3.2 	The combined amount of salary packaged benefits must generally not exceed 50% of the employee's gross base salary, except where the employee specifically requests a higher percentage be packaged as superannuation. Base salary is as prescribed by Clause 12 of this Agreement. An administration fee of up to 2% for providing each benefit may apply depending on the type of benefit selected.

12.3.3 	Access to salary packaging for staff who elect to pursue it will commence in the first pay period following finalisation by the relevant parties of the salary packaging arrangement. Salary packaging of gross salary only applies to future earnings and the arrangement cannot be retrospective.

12.3.4 	Participation in any salary package arrangement is voluntary with freedom to choose from benefits that best meet the needs of the employee. The University strongly suggests that employees considering salary packaging seek independent financial advice.

12.4	       Payment of Salary

12.4.1	If salary is payable to an employee when the employee stops employment with the University, the wages will be paid to the employee no later than 18 days after the employment ceases. However employees will be entitled to earlier payment in emergency situations at the request of the employee.

12.4.2	A casual employee will be paid within 22 days of submitting a completed valid claim for payment to the appropriate representative as identified by the University to the employee.  Payment will be in accordance with Schedule IV.

12.5	Salary Movement Within An Academic Level 

12.5.1	An academic staff member will be eligible for movement, at least no later than twelve months since appointment or the previous increment, to the next highest salary point within the academic level as set out in Schedule III - Salary rates. This will follow an assessment of at least "satisfactory" in a performance review carried out in accordance with clause 17.

12.5.2	Movement to the next highest salary point will be effective from the date provided in 12.5.1.  In cases where a performance review is delayed, the date will not be changed and any increase in salary will be paid retrospectively in accordance with 12.5.1. 

12.5.3	An academic staff member who has been absent in excess of three months, in aggregate, will have the review delayed by the period of absence. Any resultant increase will also be delayed by the period of absence.


13 - SUPERANNUATION 

13.1 	The University agrees that for the life of this Agreement, it intends to maintain the current arrangements for superannuation in respect to access to superannuation schemes and employer contribution rates that are in effect as of the date of lodgement of the Agreement. The schemes which the University will continue to contribute to are:
* Unisuper Defined Benefit Plan / Investment Choice Plan
* Unisuper Award Plus Plan
* University of Queensland Superannuation Plan (AMG Universal Super)
* Q Super Defined Benefit Plan
* Q Super Accumulation Plan
* Q Super State (Plan)

13.2 	The University agrees that, should there be any changes to the superannuation arrangements in effect as of the date of lodgement of this Agreement; the University will consult with the ASCC to give effect to the intent of subclause 13.1.


14 - CLINICAL LOADINGS AND STATE SUPPLEMENTARY LOADINGS 

14.1 	A clinical loading may be payable to academic staff who have clinically-related qualifications. The amount payable shall be determined by the Executive Dean of Health Sciences and shall be no less than provided in Schedule III. This loading is superannuable and payable during periods of study leave, annual leave and long service leave. 

14.2 	An additional state supplementary loading may be payable to academic staff who undertake public hospital clinical responsibilities. The amount payable shall be determined by the Executive Dean of Health Sciences. This loading is not superannuable and not payable during periods of study leave, annual leave and long service leave.


15 - SENIOR STAFF APPOINTMENTS 

15.1	The University may enter into written agreements or contracts of employment with persons being appointed to senior executive or senior academic positions under any terms and conditions agreed between the person and the University.


16 - TEACHING OPPORTUNITIES - POSTGRADUATE STUDENTS 

16.1 	Teaching opportunities should be made available to postgraduate research students through mechanisms such as appointment as Tutorial Assistants and Tutorial Fellows ("TA"/"TF").

16.3 	Tutorial Assistants and Tutorial Fellows will be remunerated pro rata as Level A academic staff and will work under the terms and conditions of their specific appointment.

16.4 	The University will consult with the ASCC on the best means of providing teaching opportunities to postgraduate students.


C - STAFF DEVELOPMENT AND RELATED MATTERS


17- PERFORMANCE REVIEW 

17.1 	Each academic staff member, with the exceptions listed in 17.4 below, will submit annually to his/her supervisor, a portfolio covering achievements in the broad areas of-

* teaching and supervision;
* scholarship, research and original achievement; and
* service to the University and the community.

17.2 	The supervisor will conduct a formal review with each staff member after the presentation of the portfolio. This review will address issues of staff development and personal planning, assessment of achievements and recommendations relating to other formal processes in the University such as continuing appointment, promotion, Special Studies Programs (SSP) and incremental progression.

17.3 	The outcomes from the review will be one or more of the following, as relevant to the particular circumstances of the academic staff member:

* The supervisor's assessment of progress of probationary staff;
* The supervisor's assessment of performance;
* A personal and professional development plan, completed and agreed by the staff member and the supervisor. (This document will remain confidential to the staff member, the supervisor and the Head of School / Organisational Unit.);
* A statement of the development requirements for the staff member, which cannot be met from the organisational unit's resources.  For development requirements that cannot be met within the organisational unit's resources, a document is completed advising the University Staff Development Committee of the need;
* The supervisor's recommendation concerning incremental progression where required; and/or
* The supervisor's recommendation in relation to mid-term and final review for continuing appointment, or for promotion, or for SSP as appropriate.

	These documents/recommendations will be sighted and signed by the staff member and submitted to the relevant University process at the appropriate time.

17.4 	In the case of an academic staff member who is at the top of the relevant salary scale and is appointed on a continuing basis, and

* does not plan to apply for promotion in the next two years; or
* does not plan to apply for SSP in the next 18 months; and
* for whom the supervisor does not wish to raise any issues relating to performance of the staff member's current duties; 

the appraisal interview need only be held every second year, unless the staff member requires it to be held annually.


18 - STAFF DEVELOPMENT


18.1 	The University shall, where funds are available, establish a staff development program.


18.2 	The staff development program should offer staff members the opportunity to develop their skills and effectiveness within the University, and to promote improved performance and efficiency through staff development.

18.3 	Staff development should be compatible with the development of equal opportunity and affirmative action policies, and offer staff avenues to develop in identified areas.

18.4 	Staff development programs should include components for:
* new members of staff, including casual staff;
* ongoing staff development;
* training of chairs and heads of schools or other equivalent academic units;
* training of supervisors in staff assessment techniques

18.5 	All new staff who have not previously held a teaching post should be encouraged to attend an induction program. Teaching loads of such staff should make appropriate allowance for this.

18.6 	All academic staff shall have access to a range of staff development opportunities, including but not restricted to:
* programs and consultative services on teaching and teaching development;
* services to assist in the evaluation of teaching for the purposes of improvement.


19 - ACADEMIC STAFF SUPERVISION

19.1 	Each academic shall have a nominated supervisor, and shall be advised in writing of the name and position of the nominated supervisor. Academic staff may request the nomination of an alternative supervisor.

19.2 	Supervisors shall provide academic and administrative leadership and are responsible for monitoring the performance of academics and for providing assistance to academics whose performance is assessed as requiring improvement. Wherever possible supervisors shall be competent in the areas of expertise of the academics for whom they are responsible.

19.3 	The procedures set out in this clause are designed to provide a mechanism to assess the performance of academic staff. The primary purpose of this process is to provide assistance to any academic staff member whose performance is assessed as requiring improvement.

19.4 	The supervisor shall be the head of the academic unit in which the academic is employed, provided that the Vice Chancellor may delegate in writing another academic staff member classified at Level C or above to be supervisor of one or more academics or group of academics.

19.5 	The supervisor shall within three months of being nominated, receive appropriate training in academic staff assessment techniques and the provisions of this Agreement.

19.6 	Nothing in this clause prevents an academic staff member who is head of an academic organisational unit which is not a sub-component of any larger academic organisational unit (such a unit may be called a "Faculty", "Division" or similar title) being made directly responsible to the Vice Chancellor, in which case the terms of subclauses 19.1 to 19.4 of this clause shall have no application to the academic staff member.


20 - SUPERVISOR TRAINING

Supervisor training shall include:
(a)      induction programs for supervisors upon appointment;
(b) 	the development of an ongoing annual program of supervisor training;
(c) 	training directed towards assessment of job performance rather than individual characteristics;
(d) 	training which includes equal opportunity and affirmative action policies and guidelines;
(e) 	training on academic staff assessment techniques and the provisions of this Agreement.


D - DISCIPLINARY MATTERS AND TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT


21 - DISCIPLINARY ACTION OR TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT 

21.1 	Disciplinary action should be used as a last resort. Where the University believes that disciplinary action is required for misconduct, serious misconduct or unsatisfactory performance the University will act through clauses 23 or 24 respectively. An academic supervisor will make every reasonable effort to resolve instances of possible misconduct or unsatisfactory performance through guidance, counselling, appropriate academic staff development or appropriate work allocation. 
 
21.2 	The timelines referred to in Clauses 23, 24 and 25 may be varied by mutual agreement between the Relevant Senior Executive and the staff member.

21.3 	This clause and clauses 23, 24, and 25 shall have no application to casual academic staff. 
 

22 -TERMINATION DURING PROBATIONARY EMPLOYMENT

22.1 	The Vice Chancellor may dismiss with notice a probationary academic on the grounds that their performance in relation to the criteria set out in HUPP 5.41.5: Appointment, Probation and Confirmation of Continuing Appointment (Academic Staff) is not satisfactory and provided that:

* the academic is serving a reasonable qualifying or probationary period determined and notified to the academic in advance; and
* the dismissal complies with the probation review and appeal procedures contained in the policy, HUPP 5.41.5: Appointment, Probation and Confirmation of Continuing Appointment (Academic Staff); and
* notice of dismissal is given in writing.

22.2 	The probation review referred to in the previous sub clause is only used to assess the areas of academic performance set out in HUPP 5.41.5. 

22.3	An academic dismissed in accordance with clause 22.1 shall be entitled to notice, compensation or procedural requirements as specified in the academic's contract of employment or in clause 36.2 of this Agreement, whichever is the greater.








23 - UNSATISFACTORY PERFORMANCE 


Formal Procedures

23.1 	Where a supervisor, after utilising some or all of the processes set out in clause 21.1, forms the view that the performance of an academic is unsatisfactory, they shall discuss this with the academic. This discussion shall occur either at the annual review or at any other appropriate time. 

23.2	In considering whether or not performance is unsatisfactory, the supervisor will take into account only those matters over which the academic has control and for which he/she could reasonably be held accountable.

23.3	If, after this discussion, the supervisor concludes that there are no performance issues that need to be addressed, the academic will be so informed in writing. Where the supervisor continues to believe there are performance issues that need to be addressed, she/he will notify the academic in writing of:

* the specific areas of performance that are considered unsatisfactory;
* the nature of the improvement required;
* the time within which such improvement should occur;
* the date of a formal performance review to consider whether the improvements have been made.

23.4	An appropriate duration, not less than one semester nor more than two semesters, will be provided for the academic to demonstrate the required improvement. The supervisor will make all reasonable effort to provide resources to the academic to assist him/her to achieve the required improvements.  The supervisor will take account of any mitigating circumstances raised by the academic and the views of the academic's colleagues where the academic requests that they are consulted.

Review of improvement by supervisor

23.5	At the date set out in the notification, the supervisor will review whether or not the required improvements have been made and will either advise the academic in writing that the improvements have been made and the unsatisfactory performance procedures has concluded, or make a report to the Executive Dean that the performance of the academic continues to be unsatisfactory.  

23.6	Where a report of unsatisfactory performance is made to the Executive Dean, it will state clearly the aspects of performance seen as unsatisfactory, the academic's response (if any), the record of attempts to remedy the problem, the resources provided to assist the academic, and any mitigating factors submitted by the academic.

23.7	The supervisor will provide the academic with a copy of the report at the time it is submitted. The academic will be entitled to 10 working days to submit Dean a written response to the report to the Executive.

Recommendation by Executive Dean

23.8	The Executive Dean will review the supervisor's report and must give due and proper weight to any response provided by the academic.  The Executive Dean will do one of the following:
* confirm the report of unsatisfactory performance and recommend to the relevant senior executive that a penalty be imposed; or
* modify any or all of the particulars contained in the report and advise the academic who will have an opportunity to respond to any changes in the report; or
* withdraw the report and advise the academic that the unsatisfactory performance procedures are concluded.

Action by Relevant Senior Executive

23.9	The relevant senior executive will review the Executive Dean's recommendation, the supervisor's report and the academic's response/s. If the relevant senior executive is of the view that there has been no unsatisfactory performance, she/he will immediately advise the academic in writing and may, by agreement with the academic, publish the advice in an appropriate manner. The relevant senior executive's decision and any notice publishing it will be recorded on the academic's personal file but no other reports will be so filed.

23.10	If the relevant senior executive is of the view, based on the material received with the Executive Dean's recommendation, that the performance of the academic has been unsatisfactory, the relevant senior executive will so advise the academic of the view and any proposed penalty. 

23.11 	The academic will have 5 working days to either accept the view and the proposed penalty or to appeal to a Committee of Review. If the academic does not respond within this period, she/he will be deemed to have accepted the view and the penalty.

Committee of Review

23.12 	If the academic does not accept the view and the proposed penalty, the relevant senior executive will refer the matter to a Committee of Review. The Committee of Review will consist of a Chairperson, a nominee of the staff representatives on the ASCC and a nominee of the relevant senior executive The Chair will be chosen by the relevant senior executive from a list of suitable persons agreed between the relevant senior executive and the staff representatives of the ASCC as at the commencement of the Agreement. Additional persons may only be added to this list by further agreement.

23.13	The Committee of Review will receive written and/or verbal submissions from the appellant. If the appellant wishes to appear before the Committee, he/she may be accompanied by a representative if he/she so chooses. A member of Human Resources Division will also be present to assist the Committee in terms of process. The Committee may question the appellant, the supervisor, and any other person who may assist it to discover the facts. Only members of the Committee can question the appellant and other staff who appear before them.

23.14	The Committee will advise the Senior Deputy Vice-Chancellor whether due process, has been followed and whether the performance of the academic has been at a standard appropriate to the classification of the academic and will advise on the appropriateness of the penalty proposed.

23.15	On receipt of the Committee's report the Senior Deputy Vice-Chancellor may:
* confirm the penalty;
* impose another penalty from those listed in subclause 23.18; or
* decide that no further action will be taken.

The Senior Deputy Vice-Chancellor will inform the member of staff, in writing, of the decision which is final.

Procedural and Other Matters

23.16 	Nothing in this clause or Agreement shall be construed as excluding the jurisdiction of any external court or tribunal which, but for this clause or Agreement, would be competent to deal with this matter.

23.17 	The academic must be provided with a copy of this clause and informed at each stage of the formal nature of the process and their entitlement to be represented in accordance with this Agreement.  

23.18	The penalties that may be applied for unsatisfactory performance are one, or any combination, of the following:
* formal censure or counselling;
* demotion by one classification level;
* withholding of an increment for one year; 
* termination of employment.


24 - MISCONDUCT/SERIOUS MISCONDUCT 

Action by supervisor & notice of allegations

24.1 	Where a supervisor receives a complaint or complaints against an academic or otherwise forms the view that an academic's behaviour could constitute misconduct or serious misconduct, the supervisor may conduct or commission an investigation. The supervisor must inform the academic in writing that an investigation is to occur.

24.2	If, after an investigation, a supervisor continues to hold the view that misconduct or serious misconduct has occurred, the academic must be provided with a written Notice of Allegation and a request to respond to the notice within 10 working days of the date of the Notice. The Notice must be in sufficient detail to enable the academic to understand the precise nature of the allegations, and to properly consider and respond to them. 

24.3	Within 15 working days of the date of the Notice, the supervisor, taking full and due account of the academic's response, must either discontinue the proceeding or report to the relevant senior executive that they consider that the behaviour constitutes misconduct or serious misconduct and recommend what disciplinary action should be taken against the academic. The disciplinary action must be one of the penalties in clause 24.16.

Action by relevant senior executive

24.4	The relevant senior executive must:
* consider all the information gathered in the initial investigation, including the academic's response and any other relevant material.
* provide the academic with the opportunity either in writing or personally to answer the allegations and to challenge evidence.
* allow the academic to be assisted by a representative if he/she so chooses.

24.5	Within 10 working days of receiving the report from the supervisor, the relevant senior executive must form a view about whether the allegation has been substantiated and, if so, the appropriate penalty. The academic will be informed in writing of the view and the reasons for it. The academic will be given 10 working days to either accept the view and the proposed penalty or a request that the matter go to a Committee of Review. If the academic does not respond within this period, she/he will be deemed to have accepted the view and the penalty. 

Committee of review

24.6	If the academic does not accept the view and proposed penalty, the relevant senior executive will refer the matter to a Committee of Review, which will meet to deal with the matter as soon as is practicable. The Committee of Review will be constituted and operate according to clauses 24.11 to 24.13 and will report to the Senior Deputy Vice-Chancellor on the substance of the allegations and whether the proposed  penalty  is appropriate.

24.7	The Committee must report the results of the review and any recommendations to the Senior Deputy Vice-Chancellor within 5 working days of their final meeting. 

24.8	Within 5 working days of receiving the Committee's report, the Senior Deputy Vice-Chancellor shall decide:
* that no further action should be taken in which case he/she will advise the academic and by agreement with the academic publish the decision in an appropriate manner; or
* that the penalty recommended by the Committee or relevant senior executive should be implemented; or
* to impose another penalty from those listed in 24.16. 

The Senior Deputy Vice-Chancellor will inform the member of staff, in writing, of the decision which is final.

Suspension at the time of the notice of allegations

24.9	At the time of issuing the Notice of Allegations, the relevant senior executive may suspend the employee with or without pay if they form the view that allegations amount to serious misconduct.

24.10	Where an academic is suspended without pay:
* if suspension without pay occurs at a time when the academic is on paid leave of absence, the academic shall continue to receive salary for the period of leave of absence;
* the academic may engage in paid employment or take recreation leave or long service leave for the duration of a suspension without pay;
* the relevant senior executive may at any time direct that salary be paid on the grounds of hardship;
* a decision to suspend without pay shall be reviewed by a Committee of Review at its first meeting. The Committee may recommend that a suspension should be lifted to the relevant senior executive who will consider the matter expeditiously.  If the conduct is determined not be serious misconduct, the academic will be reimbursed for the entire period of suspension without pay.

During any period of suspension the academic may be excluded from the institution provided that he or she shall be permitted reasonable access to the institution for the preparation of his or her case and to collect personal property.

Committee Procedures

24.11	A Committee of Review will consist of a Chairperson, a nominee of the staff representatives of the ASCC and a nominee of the relevant senior executive. The Chair will be chosen by the relevant senior executive from a list of suitable persons agreed between the relevant senior executive and the staff representatives of the ASCC at the commencement of the Agreement. Additional persons may only be added to this list by further agreement.

24.12	The academic may be assisted by a representative if he/she so chooses and the University shall be represented by a staff member appointed by the relevant senior executive provided that neither of these persons is a practising barrister or solicitor.

24.13	The Committee of Review shall:
* determine its own procedures, which must be consistent with this clause, and shall not be bound by the rules of evidence but may inform itself on any matter in such manner as it thinks appropriate and as the consideration of the matter before it permits;
* complete its deliberations and make its report within 20 working days except where a longer period is agreed by the chairperson;
* provide the academic an opportunity to answer the allegations;
* proceedings will be in camera but the academic and their representative will be permitted to be present at all hearings. The members of the Committee shall treat the proceedings, report and all matters relating thereto as confidential;
* ensure the academic and University management and their representatives have the right to ask questions of interviewees, have access to all records of evidence, make submissions and to present and challenge evidence;
* keep a tape recording of the proceedings (but not of the Committee's own deliberations) and ensure this is available to the parties.

Procedural and Other matters

24.14	Nothing in this clause or Agreement shall be construed as excluding the jurisdiction of any external court or tribunal which, but for this clause or agreement, would be competent to deal with this matter.

24.15	The academic must be provided with a copy of this clause and informed at each stage of the formal nature of the process and their entitlement to be represented in accordance with this Agreement.  

24.16	The penalties that may be applied for misconduct or serious misconduct are one of: 
* formal censure, warning or counselling;
* demotion by one classification level;
* withholding of an increment for one year; 
* suspension with or without pay;
* termination of employment provided that termination can only occur on the grounds of serious misconduct.

24.17 	The Vice-Chancellor, on the recommendation of the relevant senior executive, may dismiss an academic without notice if the Vice-Chancellor is satisfied that the member of staff is guilty of serious misconduct of such nature that it would be unreasonable to continue employment during a period of notice.


25 - MEDICAL CONDITIONS AFFECTING PERFORMANCE 

25.1 	The relevant senior executive may require, in writing, any staff member, whose capacity to perform the duties of his or her office is in doubt, to undergo medical examination.  This will be undertaken by a qualified medical practitioner/s chosen by the University and at the expense of the University. This may involve more than one consultation where the staff member's condition/s requires it.

25.2 	The relevant senior executive shall provide a staff member with written notice of not less than 2 months that a medical examination is required and ensure that any action taken under this clause is in accordance with University policy 5.70.13 Medical Conditions Affecting Performance. 

25.3 	Where the staff member makes application to their superannuation fund for ill health retirement or temporary disability benefit prior to the expiry of the period of notice, the staff member cannot be required to attend a medical examination in accordance with sub clause 25.1 until one of the following circumstances:

* For a member of Unisuper or QSuper, after the payment of the temporary disability benefit ceases;
* For a member of the University of Queensland Superannuation Plan after two years of receiving a disability benefit;
* Where the superannuation fund determines that the person is ineligible under the rules of the fund to receive a temporary disability benefit. This does not apply in circumstances where the staff member is on sick leave but has not reached the expiry of the 3 months qualifying period or such period of paid sick leave as the fund requires.

The relevant senior executive may only direct a staff member to attend a medical examination/s in these circumstances where the capacity of the staff member to perform their duties remains in doubt.

25.4 	If the medical examination reveals that the staff member is unable to perform his or her duties and is unlikely to be able to resume them within a reasonable period, being not less than 12 months, the relevant senior executive may, terminate the employment of the staff member in accordance with the notice required by the staff member's contract of employment or where no notice is specified in accordance with clause 36.2 of this Agreement. Prior to taking action to terminate the employment of a staff member, the relevant senior executive may offer the staff member the opportunity to submit a resignation and, if such a resignation is offered, shall accept it and not proceed with action to terminate employment.

25.5 	If within 10 working days of the report being made available, the staff member or a person acting on their behalf so requests, the relevant senior executive shall not terminate the employment of the staff member in accordance with subclause 25.5 unless and until the findings of the report are confirmed by a panel consisting of three medical practitioners, one of whom shall be appointed by the University, one by the staff member or by a person acting on his or her behalf, and one by the President of the State Branch of the Australian Medical Association. The Panel shall not include the practitioner who made the initial report. The right to request a review is subject to there being contrary medical evidence that the staff member is either able to perform their duties or likely to resume them within a period of 12 months.

25.6 	In making an assessment as to whether or not a staff member is unable to perform his or her duties and is unlikely to be able to resume them within a reasonable period, the medical practitioner or panel of medical practitioners appointed pursuant to this clause shall as far as possible apply the same standards as are used by the staff member's superannuation scheme, if any, in determining qualification for the payment of a disablement pension or other similar benefit.

25.7 	The relevant senior executive may construe failure by a staff member to undergo a medical examination in accordance with these procedures as prima facie evidence that such a medical examination would have found that the staff member is unable to perform his or her duties and is unlikely to be able to resume them within 12 months, and may act accordingly, provided that such a refusal by a staff member in these circumstances shall not constitute misconduct nor lead to any greater penalty or loss of entitlements than would have resulted from an adverse medical report.


25.8    Subsidiary Matters

A staff member who receives a temporary disability benefit from the superannuation fund shall not accrue leave entitlements during this period.

Where a superannuation fund determines a staff member is permanently disabled the University shall be entitled to consider the staff member's employment has ceased.

Nothing in this clause shall restrict any right the University may have to direct a staff member to attend a medical appointment where there are genuine occupational health and safety reasons for this. Any such direction shall operate independently of this clause and not be part of the procedure of this clause.


E - CONSULTATION ON WORKLOADS AND MAJOR CHANGE

26 - WORKLOADS

26.1 	The parties to this Agreement acknowledge that, subject to subclause 26.2, academic staff may be required to:
* contribute to teaching and research programs during summer sessions, weekend seminars and inter-semester periods in Australia or overseas.
* contribute to programs or projects designed to increase the number of full fee paying students.
* assist co-operatively in changing programs and courses through the available forums to ensure, for example, that unnecessary duplication or non-viable  programs and/or courses are avoided.

26.2 	Heads must ensure that staff are consulted, and that workloads are allocated fairly and distributed equitably among staff in the School, taking into account reasonable consideration of family and personal responsibilities.

26.3 	To achieve this and to monitor workloads of staff generally within the School, the Head, in accordance with the Guidelines for Allocation of Workload to Academic Staff, will:

* develop, in consultation with academic staff of the school, and implement, an agreed method of calculating comparative workloads of academic staff, and presenting them publicly within the School;
* provide flexible guidelines for the development and on-going management of acceptable workloads for individual staff members having regard to the School's needs and the individual's expertise and research and professional interests and level of appointment, and including  the University's guideline on the maximum number of hours that a full time academic would be expected to devote to duties in any one year; 
* strike an appropriate balance among teaching (including supervision), research, and service for each individual so that the overall work carried out by the combined staff meets the goals and objectives of the School.

26.4 	Changes to the guidelines will be subject to consultation with the ASCC and affected academic staff. The maximum hours specified in the guidelines will not be varied within the nominal life of the Agreement.

26.5 	Should a staff member believe that the workload assigned by a Head is inequitable or unreasonable, the staff member may invoke the procedures set out in the Staff Grievance Resolution Policy.


27 - JOB SECURITY 

27.1 	The parties to this Agreement agree that:
* the enhancement of job security will contribute positively to staff commitment and productivity;
* maintenance or improvement of staffing levels where required for the quality of the teaching and research programs continues to be a key concern for University budget managers;
* the provision of the greatest possible degree of job security to all staff is a major aim of the University and crucial to its most effective functioning, with normal attrition as the preferred method of addressing changes in the staffing profile;
* compulsory retrenchments are a last resort;
* It is the general intention of the University that casual employment be used as a supplement to and not a substitute for the creation of continuing and fixed term positions and that casual staff would not be used as permanent or long term replacements for staff in positions where there is an ongoing need for work performed.   

27.2 	The parties to this Agreement agree to consider the position of long-term research staff.


28 - MANAGING MAJOR CHANGE

28.1 Organisational Change

28.1.1	Organisational change which does not include the identification of staff as excess to requirements will not engage the processes set out under the restructuring provisions of this Agreement. To ensure the effective planning for, and management of, organisational change which does not involve redundancies, the relevant manager/s will ensure that:
* consultation is carried out with all staff, and if they so choose with their representatives, who will be affected by the organisational change; and 
* existing consultation mechanisms including the ASCC and others such as School standing committees or ad hoc mechanisms such as representative working parties are utilised; and 
* necessary information including budgetary information, is provided to all affected staff.

28.1.2	Where organisational change involves the possibility that staff will be excess to requirements, and the possibility that retrenchments might result, the restructuring process described below will be followed.

28.2 Restructuring

This clause sets out the key principles relating to organisational restructuring which will be implemented in accordance with the University policies 5.43.6 Restructuring and Managing Change and 5.70.14 Redeployment Arising from Redundancy or Medical Condition and the document "Guidelines for Planning and Implementing Restructuring".

28.2.1 	A relevant senior manager may assess that restructuring will be required for reasons such as, but not limited to, the following:
* changes in the nature of the organisation of functions of a unit, or of significant work methods of the unit;
* financial exigency or budget constraints;
* changes in technology;
* work that has been traditionally carried out is no longer needed; 
* variation to the discipline or program mix in an academic unit.

28.2.2 	The expiry of a fixed term contract/s in accordance with its/their own terms will not be regarded as a restructuring or a redundancy which attracts the provisions of this clause. 

28.2.3 	The procedures in relation to restructuring do not apply when the relevant manager assesses that a single staff member is excess to requirements, that this does not result in an unreasonable workload for other staff and the staff member concerned agrees to take a Voluntary Separation Package (VSP).  

28.2.4 	The procedures relating to restructuring do not apply when staff are offered employment at the same classification in substantially the same duties within the University or in  another organisation as a result of either the transmission of business or the provision of an employment opportunity.

28.3 Consultation

28.3.1 	The relevant unit manager will consult with all staff who will be affected by the restructuring

28.4 Proposal

28.4.1 	When the unit manager (Head, Executive Dean, Director, etc) assesses that consultation 	has clarified the relevant issues, he/she will produce a formal written Proposal, which
	provides adequate detailed information and justification for the restructure, including an implementation plan as specified in University policy 5.43.6 Restructuring.

28.4.2	The Proposal will be circulated to all affected staff. Normally there will be a period of 10 working days for consideration by affected staff.

28.5.	Standing Committee for Change Management

28.5.1 	The Proposal shall be forwarded to the University Standing Committee for Change Management (Academic Staff) for consideration.

28.5.2 	The University Standing Committee for Change Management (Academic Staff) will be established at the commencement of the agreement and comprise:

* Relevant senior executive (Chair)
* An Executive Dean
* A Head of School
* Two members of University academic staff elected by and from the academic staff.

Where the Proposal involves an organisational unit to which one of the standing committee members belongs, or where there is a casual vacancy, a replacement Executive Dean or Head of School will be nominated by the relevant senior executive, and a replacement academic staff member will be nominated by the elected staff representative members of the ASCC.

28.5.3 	Human Resources Division will provide a non-voting Secretary for the Committee and the elected staff representatives may nominate an observer to offer technical advice.

28.5.4	The University Standing Committee for Change Management will meet as frequently as is necessary with a view to completing its deliberations within 20 working days, or other such time as determined by the committee. 

28.5.5	The role of the Committee will be to consider and provide meaningful advice as to whether the proposed restructuring is justified and reasonable.  The committee will make a recommendation to either accept the Proposal, or reject the Proposal or call for modifications.

28.5.6 	If the Committee calls for modifications, these will be considered by the relevant manager.

i) If the relevant manager revises the Proposal and re-submits it, it will be considered by the Committee, which will recommend either the acceptance or rejection of the revised proposal.
ii) If the relevant manager provides a justification why the modifications cannot be implemented, the Committee will re-consider the original Proposal.

28.5.7 		The Proposal and the Committee's recommendations will be forwarded to the Senior Deputy Vice-Chancellor who will, after due and proper consideration, will reject or approve the Proposal for implementation. 

28.6 Implementing the Approved Proposal

28.6.1 The relevant manager will be responsible for implementing the Proposal. In the first instance he/she will pursue voluntary mechanisms by offering to staff in the affected area the opportunity to express interest in Voluntary Separation Packages (VSP) and/or to seek fractional appointments. Staff who wish to pursue both options should indicate whether their first preference is a VSP or a fractional appointment. Staff will have 5 working days to respond.

28.6.2 The relevant manager will first decide, having regard to the operational requirements of the unit, whether fractional appointment can be offered to some or all of those who have expressed interest.  The manager should communicate the decision to the staff member within 10 working days of receiving the request.   Staff who are not able to be accommodated as a fractional appointee, will be eligible to express an interest in a VSP, provided they have nominated this preference in response to the manager's notification.

28.6.3 Where the number of fractional appointments does not meet the required reduction in staffing,
the relevant manager will accept up to the necessary number of expressions of interest in voluntary separation to meet the reduction.  Voluntary Separation Packages will be as at Clause 28.10 and decided in accordance with policy. 

28.7 Retrenchment

28.7.1 	If the mechanisms for voluntary separation or fractional appointments do not achieve the reductions in staffing required, then the necessary number of positions will be declared surplus, in accordance with the criteria contained in the Proposal as approved by the Senior Deputy Vice-Chancellor. 

28.7.2 	The relevant manager will apply the criteria contained in the Proposal as approved by the Senior Deputy Vice-Chancellor when identifying positions as surplus.

28.7.3 	Any staff member who holds a position which has been identified as surplus, may apply for redeployment in accordance with the provisions of subclause 28.8 and policy 5.70.14: Redeployment Arising from Redundancy or Medical Condition and/or may seek a review in accordance with sub-clause 28.9. If the staff member elects to pursue both courses, they will be handled concurrently, according to the time lines in sub-clauses 28.8 and 28.9.

28.7.4 	A staff member who holds a position which has been identified as surplus and who does not apply for redeployment nor a review will be paid a severance payment in accordance with sub-clause 28.10 and leave the employment of the University at the earliest opportunity.

28.8 Redeployment

28.8.1 	Where a staff member elects to seek redeployment, the University will make reasonable attempts to find a suitable position, in accordance with policy 5.70.14: Redeployment Arising from Redundancy or Medical Condition.   The redeployee will not be required to compete against external or internal applicants in open competition.

28.8.2 	The University will notify the staff member of possible redeployment opportunities.  Alternatively the staff member may notify Human Resources Division of positions for which they wish to be considered. 

28.8.3 		Where redeployment to lower level position occurs the University will protect the member's superannuation entitlements by continuing to pay the employer's superannuation contribution at the member's previous classification salary rate and will also pay the difference between the member's former contribution at the old salary level and the member's contribution at the new salary level (after accounting for employer contributions and tax) for a maximum period of 5 years. This arrangement will only apply where superannuation fund rules allow.

28.9 Review

28.9.1 	        Any staff member who holds a position which has been identified as surplus may request,
	within 5 working days of notification, a review as to whether the criteria used to select the position have been applied in an objective and non-discriminatory manner and in
	accordance with the proposal.

28.9.2 	A Review Panel, comprising a senior manager nominated by the relevant senior executive (in the Chair), a nominee of the  academic staff members on the ASCC and an Executive Dean/Deputy Vice-Chancellor, will be established as soon as practicable, but no later than 5 working days after receipt of the application for review.

28.9.3 	All relevant information will be provided to the Review Panel. The staff member and the Executive Dean/Deputy Vice-Chancellor will have the opportunity to make verbal or written submissions to the Panel.

28.9.4 	The Panel may interview any person it thinks fit.

28.9.5 	The Review Panel will transmit its recommendation to the Senior Deputy Vice-Chancellor who will make the decision. That decision will be communicated to the staff member and to the Executive Dean/Deputy Vice-Chancellor within 10 working days of the receipt of the application for review. 

28.10 VSP and Retrenchment - Pay Calculation

28.10.1 	A staff member whose position is made redundant will be given a severance payment and will leave employment at the University at the earliest opportunity.

28.10.2 	The severance payment will be an amount calculated in accordance with the method set out below, paid as a lump sum by the University and concessionally taxed.

28.10.3 	The amount paid will be calculated as follows, for each individual staff member:

Step 1:	Calculate the amount of money after tax as cash in hand that the staff member would receive if he/she had received the entitlements for retrenchment payments as follows:

Age below 40		6 month's pay
Age 40			7 month's pay
Age 41			8 month's pay
Age 42			9 month's pay
Age 43			10 month's pay
Age 44			11 month's pay
Age 45 and over 		12 month's pay

(Less PAYE tax)

PLUS:

Severance payment 

Up to the completion of 2 years		4 weeks' pay
2 years and up to the completion of 3 years	6 weeks' pay
3 years and up to the completion of 4 years	7 week's pay
4 years and over				8 weeks' pay


(Less concessional tax)

PLUS EITHER:

(a)	Normal salary for the greater period of notice as set out below:

Not more than 1 year's service			1 week
More than 1 year but not more than 3 years	2 weeks
More than 3 years but no more than 5 years	3 weeks
More than 5 years				4 weeks

If the staff member is 45 years old and has completed 2 years of service with the University then an additional 1 week shall apply.
OR

(b)	Payment in lieu of notice as specified in the staff member's contract of employment.

(Less PAYE tax).


Step 2:	Calculate the amount of money after tax as cash in hand that the staff member would receive as follows:

* severance pay at the rate of 2 weeks' pay for each year of service taxed concessionally, up to a maximum of 52 weeks;
* normal salary for six months' further employment, less PAYE   tax;
* payment on pro-rate basis for any long service leave, taxed at the appropriate rate.

Step 3:	The individual staff member chooses which of the amounts calculated by Step 1 and Step 2 he/she wishes to receive.

Step 4:	The University adds to the amount identified in Step 3, the concessional tax for which the member is liable and this new sum becomes the severance amount.

28.10.4 	For the purposes of calculating service, casual service will not be counted. Where there has been a combination of full time and fractional service then fractional service will be converted into full time equivalent service and payment made at the full time salary rate.

28.10.5 	Where a staff member is redeployed into a fixed term position and the redeployment ceases as a result of the non-renewal of a fixed term contract by the University the staff member will remain entitled to the full amount of the severance payment (calculated as above) for a period of 3 months after the initial redeployment.

28.10.6 	Where the redeployment ceases after a period of 3 months as a result of the non renewal of a fixed term contract by the University the staff member will remain entitled to a severance payment calculated as above as from the date of 3 months after the initial redeployment less the number of weeks paid under the fixed term contract/s after the 3 month period provided that long service leave shall be calculated from the last date of actual employment with the University.


29 - VOLUNTARY EARLY RETIREMENT

The University may offer early retirement in accordance with a scheme approved by the Commissioner of Taxation provided that any lump sum benefit shall be calculated at a minimum rate of two weeks salary for each year of service, but with no obligation upon the institution to pay beyond a maximum of 52 weeks salary.


F - LEAVE 

30.1 The following table sets out the basic entitlements for staff in each of the leave categories. Detailed provisions for the granting and taking of leave and all leave related entitlements by various categories of staff and the arrangements for payment while on leave will be in accordance with the relevant leave policies referenced in the leave table below.

Leave TypeEmployee CategoryEntitlementConditionsRecreation Leave
HUPP 5.60.10Full- Time Employees145 Hours (20 days for each 12 months or continuous paid serviceRecreation leave is cumulative.

Where the accumulated entitlement is equivalent to 8 weeks, the University may direct an employee to take 2 weeks of leave at the earliest practical time.

Records of leave applications, takings and balances will be maintained.

Accumulated leave will be paid out at resignation or retirement.

Leave Loading of 17.5% of ordinary salary, with a maximum payment equal to the Australian Bureau of Statistics' average weekly total earnings of all males (Australia) for the August quarter preceding the date of accrual.
Part- Time employees Pro rata the full-time rate
Casual Employees
No entitlementPersonal Leave
HUPP 5.60.30

(Sick Leave)

Full-Time employees 40 days per annumSick leave is cumulative at a maximum of 5 days for each completed year of service (pro rata for part time employees).

Medical certificate or statutory declaration needed for more than three consecutive days.

Records of leave applications, takings and balances will be maintained.

Accumulated sick leave is not paid out at resignation or retirement.
Part-time employeesPro-rata the full time rate basis for leaveCasual Employees
No entitlementPersonal Leave
HUPP 5.60.30

(Carer's Leave)
Full- Time Employees 5 working days accrues per yearCarer's Leave is cumulative

In any one year a full-time employee may take a maximum of 10 days paid carer's leave (pro rata for part time employees).

Accumulated leave is not paid out at resignation/ retirement. 

Available for dependent children, immediate or extended family and significant others.  Medical certificate or statutory declaration needed for more than three consecutive days.

Records of leave applications, takings and balances will be maintained.
Part- Time employees Pro rata the full-time rateCasual Employees
No entitlementPersonal Leave 
HUPP 5.60.30

(Unpaid Carer's Leave)
Full- Time Employees 2 days leave for each permissible occasionAn employee is entitled to take the unpaid carer's leave during a particular period only once paid personal/carer's leave is exhausted. Part- Time employees Casual EmployeesLong Service Leave
HUPP 5.60.7Full-time employees 1.3 weeks for each completed years of service after 10 years of continuous serviceEntitled to take a minimum of 2 weeks leave on six months notice; employees can be required to take a minimum of 4 weeks leave where accrual is greater then 18 weeks subject to transition arrangements in policy 5.60.7Part-time employeesPro rata the full time rateCasual employees with appointments after 30 March 1994 and who have been employed on a regular basis with no break between appointments greater than 13 weeks
Formula in HUPP Policy 5.60.07
Defence Forces Leave
HUPP 5.60.16
All employeesUnpaid leaveParental Leave
HUPP 5.60.9Full- Time employees who are primary care givers

26 weeks after 12 months continuous serviceEntitled to return to position held immediately before taking parental leaveFull-Time employees who are not primary care givers but share the parenting responsibilities1 week in any 12 consecutive months of employmentPart-Time employeesPro rata full-time rateEligible Casual employeesUnpaid maternity leave
Bereavement/Compassionate Leave
HUPP 5.60.13
All employees other than casual3 days paid leave.  Up to 5 days unpaid leave.Available for the purpose of spending time with a person who is a member of the employee's immediate family or household and has a personal illness, or injury, that poses a serious threat to his or her life; or after the death of a member of the employee's immediate family or household. This entitlement also extends to members of community of Indigenous Australians or where recognised cultural relationship existsSpecial Leave
HUPP 5.60.8
All employeesAt University discretionJury Service
HUPP 5.60.22
All employees other than casual employeesPaid leave for period of duty

30.2 PUBLIC HOLIDAYS

	Employees, other than casual employees, will be entitled to the following holidays without loss of pay:

New Year's Day;
Australia Day;
Good Friday;
Easter Saturday;
Easter Monday;
Anzac Day;
Queen's Birthday;
Labour Day;
Christmas Day;
Boxing Day; and
Any other day or days gazetted in the State of Queensland in addition to or substitution of any of the above having application to the University of Queensland, provided that:

* Where Christmas Day falls on a Saturday or on a Sunday, the following Monday and Tuesday shall be observed as Christmas Day and Boxing Day respectively; or

* Where Boxing Day falls on a Saturday, the following Monday shall be observed as Boxing Day; and

* Where New Year's Day falls on a Saturday or on a Sunday the following Monday shall be observed as New Year's Day.


F - OTHER MATTERS

31 - EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITIES AND ANTI-DISCRIMINATION

31.1 	The parties to this Agreement are committed to equal opportunity and freedom from all forms of discrimination in employment as determined by legislation or by the Senate of the University.

31.2 	The University is committed to having polices or programs on the following employment matters:

* equity and equal opportunity;
* prevention of discrimination, harassment and bullying;
* carer and family responsibilities;
* inclusive language;
* disability services;
* grievance resolution for discrimination, harassment and bullying related conflicts; 
* Indigenous employment.

.31.3	It is the intention of the University to respect and value the diversity of the work force by helping to prevent and eliminate discrimination on the basis of trade union activity, race, colour, sex, sexual preference, age, physical or mental disability, marital status, family responsibilities, pregnancy, religion, political opinion, national extraction or social origin.  The University and its staff will act in accordance with the relevant University policies.


32 - INDIGENOUS EMPLOYMENT

32.1 	The University is committed to the implementation of an Indigenous employment strategy and which includes the following principles:

* that a supportive working environment for Indigenous staff requires policies that address racism, support equal employment opportunity and respect the culture and heritage of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders;
* consultation over the strategy with Indigenous staff and communities, the unions and other stakeholders;
* Indigenous employment and participation at all levels of work activity to be increased and encouraged;
* direct involvement of Indigenous employees in determining their own career strategies to be facilitated and encouraged;
* ensuring effective staff development for Indigenous staff;
* Provision for a significant increase in the number of Indigenous staff employed across the University at the end of this Agreement through the setting of employment targets (taking into account the proportion of the Indigenous population in the catchments area). 
	
32.1 	For the purpose of this clause "Indigenous Australian person" means a person of Aboriginal and / or Torres Strait Island descent who identifies as an Aboriginal and / or Torres Strait Island person and is accepted as such by their community.


33 - ACADEMIC FREEDOM 

33.1   	The University is committed to act in a manner consistent with the protection and promotion of academic freedom within the University and in accordance with the University's Code of Conduct (HUPP Policy 1.50.1).  The principle of academic freedom should be scrupulously observed at the University of Queensland.  
 
33.2 Academic freedom includes the rights of all employees to:

* express opinions about the operations of the University and higher education policy more generally;
* pursue critical and open inquiry and to discuss freely, teach, assess, develop curricula, publish and research;
* participate in public debates and express opinions about issues and ideas related to their discipline area;
* participate in professional and representative bodies including industrial associations and to engage in community service without fear of harassment, intimidation or unfair treatment;
* express unpopular or controversial views, although this does not mean the right to harass, vilify or intimidate.
 
33.3  	In the exercise of Academic Freedom, employees will act in a professional and ethical manner and will not harass, vilify, intimidate or defame the institution or its employees. 


34 - MODES AND TYPES OF EMPLOYMENT 

34.1	This clause places no limits on the forms and mix of employment arrangements that the University may enter into with its staff.

34.2 	Modes of Employment

34.2.1	Continuing Employment shall mean employment other than fixed term or casual and continues until termination at the initiative of either the employer or the employee in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement.

34.2.2	Fixed-term employment means employment on a full-time or part-time basis for a specified term or ascertainable period, for which the instrument of engagement will specify the starting and finishing dates of that employment, or in lieu of a finishing date, will specify the circumstance(s) or contingency relating to a specific task or project, upon occurrence of which the term of the employment shall expire and for which, during the term of employment, the contract is not terminable, by the University, other than during a probationary period, or for cause based upon serious or wilful misconduct, or a persistent pattern of unsatisfactory performance.

For the purpose of this Agreement and for the purpose of determining which provisions apply to fixed-term employees, breaks between fixed-term employment of up to two times per year and of up to six weeks shall not constitute breaks in continuous service, but shall not count as service.  Periods of approved unpaid leave shall not count for service, but shall not constitute breaks in service.

34.2.3	A continuing or a fixed-term employee can be employed on a full-time or part-time basis. A Part-time employee shall mean one engaged for a specified proportion of fulltime employment. A part-time employee shall be entitled to the appropriate proportion of salary and other benefits prescribed by this Agreement, unless otherwise specified.

34.2.4	Casual employment shall mean employment of a person engaged by the hour and paid on an hourly basis. Casuals will be paid a loading of 23%. 

34.3	Terms of Engagement

Upon engagement, the University will provide to the employee an instrument of appointment which stipulates the type and mode of employment and informs the employee of the terms of engagement at the time of the appointment in accordance with University policy 5.43.1 Modes and Types of Employment.

34.4	Nothing in this Agreement prevents staff engaging in additional work as a casual staff member in work unrelated to, or identifiably separate from, their normal duties.

35 - DISPUTE SETTLING PROCEDURES 

35.1 	The parties to this Agreement agree that the University and all of its staff members have an interest in the proper application of this Agreement, and in minimizing and settling disputes about matters in this Agreement in a timely manner. 

35.2 	Where any dispute arises as to the application of this Agreement, in the first instance the matter is to be raised and discussed by an academic staff member, or where they so choose, their representative with the relevant senior manager.  They shall within 5 working days of notification attempt to reach written agreement, subject to ratification by either party to the dispute.

35.3	Where a dispute is not resolved under 35.2 within 10 working days, it shall be referred to the relevant senior executive who shall arrange a conference of the parties to the dispute and where they so choose their representative(s) and any other relevant staff to discuss the matter and advise the parties to the dispute. Such discussions should not extend beyond 5 working days except by explicit agreement.

35.4 	The University will make a decision and inform all those involved within 5 working days.

35.5	Until the procedures described in sub-clauses 35.2, 35.3 and 35.4 have been exhausted:

* work shall continue in the normal manner;
* no industrial action shall be taken by parties to this dispute.

35.6	During the time prescribed in sub-clause 35.5, management shall not change work, staffing or the organisation of work if such is the subject of the dispute, nor take any other action likely to exacerbate the dispute.

35.7 	If the decision is not accepted, the matter may be referred to the Australian Industrial Relations Commission (AIRC) by either party for determination. The parties to the dispute grant the AIRC powers to determine the matter through conciliation and/or arbitration.  The parties to the dispute agree to be bound by any decision to resolve the dispute by the AIRC.

35.8	The decision of the member (of the AIRC) will bind the parties to the dispute , subject to either party exercising a right of appeal against the decision to the Full Bench if they believe there has been a significant error of fact or law in the first instance.

35.9 	Nothing in this clause prevents the parties to the dispute from agreeing to refer an unresolved dispute to a person or body other than the AIRC for resolution.  If this process is undertaken the parties to the dispute agree to be bound by any decision or recommendation to resolve the dispute, made by the agreed person or body.

35.10	In dealing with the dispute the agreed person or the AIRC may exercise the procedural powers in relation to hearings, witnesses, evidence, submissions and interim decisions which are necessary to make such dealing effective.

35.11 	It is acknowledged that if the dispute relates to an alleged ambiguity or uncertainty in this Agreement any party to this Agreement may at any time apply for variation of the Agreement to eliminate the alleged uncertainty.


36 - TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT

36.1	Notice of termination by the employee
	
36.1.1	Employees, other than casual employees, must give the following written notice upon termination of service: 

(a) Continuing appointment - 6 months; 
(b) Fixed term appointment more than one year - 6 months; 
(c) Fixed term appointment one year or less - 1 month.

36.1.2	A shorter period of notice may be agreed upon between the University and the employee. If an employee fails to give notice the employer will have the right to withhold monies due to the employee with a maximum amount equal to the ordinary time rate of pay for the notice period.

36.2	Notice of termination by the University

36.2.1	The University may only terminate academic staff, other than casual staff but including probationary staff, on demonstrated grounds of unsatisfactory performance (including during probation), or serious misconduct, or ill-health or redundancy. In such cases, the notice given by the university will be as set out below except where a greater period of notice is provided in the employee's contract of employment.

(a) Continuing appointment - 6 months; 
(b) Fixed term appointment more than one year - 6 months; 
(c) Fixed term appointment one year or less - 1 month. 

36.2.2	Where termination occurs for proven serious misconduct, the notice period shall be as provided for in relevant legislation or in the staff member's contract of employment whichever is greater. 

36.2.3	Where termination occurs on grounds of redundancy, payment in lieu of the notice period is included in the retrenchment payment.

36.3	Fixed-term employees - Notice of cessation or renovation of employment upon expiry of 	contract

The University shall provide a fixed-term employee, written notice of the University's intention to renew, or not to renew, employment with the employee upon the expiry of the contract. The notice period shall be: 

Period of continuous servicePeriod of noticeNot more than 1 yearAt least one week, or the equivalent of a full pay period, whichever is the greater.
1 year but less than 3 yearsAt least two weeks, or the equivalent of a full pay period, whichever is the greater.
3 years but less than 5 yearsAt least three weeks, or the equivalent of a full pay period, whichever is the greater.
5 years or overAt least four weeks, or the equivalent of a full pay period, whichever is the greater.

In addition to this notice, an employee over the age of 45 years at the time of the giving of notice and with not less than two (2) years continuous service shall be entitled to an additional week's notice.

36.4	Action on Completion of a Fixed-Term Contract

	Following the completion of a fixed-term appointment and where it is determined that the position will continue as a fixed-term appointment, the University will offer the incumbent staff member appointment to that position where:

* the duties of the position continue as they were as at the date of expiry of the appointment; 
* the staff member was initially appointed through a merit-based selection process; and 
* the new fixed-term appointment is for no more than two years.

36.5	Fixed-term Employees - Severance Pay

36.5.1	A fixed-term employee whose contract of employment is not renewed in circumstances where the employee seeks to continue the employment will be entitled to a severance payment if:

(a) The employee is employed on a second or subsequent fixed-term contract for research only or for a specific task or project, and the same or substantially similar duties are no longer required by the employer; or
(b) The employee is employed on a fixed-term contract for research only or for a specific task or project, but another person has been appointed, or is to be appointed, to the same or substantially similar duties.

36.5.2	Where the University advises an employee in writing that further employment may be offered within six (6) weeks of the expiry of a period of fixed-term employment, then payment of severance benefits may be deferred for a maximum period of four (4) weeks from the expiry of the period of fixed-term employment.

36.5.3	If the University obtains acceptable alternative employment for an employee otherwise entitled to severance payment, then that employee is not entitled to severance payment.

36.5.4	Severance payment entitlements will be calculated for a period of continuous service as follows:


Period of continuous serviceSeverance payUp to the completion of 2 years4 weeks pay2 years and up to the completion of 3 years6 weeks pay3 years and up to the completion of 4 years7 weeks pay4 years and over
8 weeks pay

36.5.5	For the purpose of this clause, breaks between fixed-term appointments of up to two times per year and of up to six weeks on each occasion, will not constitute breaks in continuous service.  Periods of approved unpaid leave will not count for service, but will not constitute breaks in service for the purposes of this clause.


37 - NO EXTRA CLAIMS

The parties to this Agreement agree not to pursue any further claims prior to the nominal expiry date of this Agreement.

UNIVERSITY OF QUEENSLAND ENTERPRISE AGREEMENT (ACADEMIC STAFF) 2006 

Signature page for the University of Queensland

Signed for the University of Queensland   		.....................................

Witness                          				.....................................



The name of the Employer is the University of Queensland. 

The ABN is 63942912684 

The address of The University of Queensland is The University of Queensland, St Lucia, Brisbane, Queensland 4072

The full name and address of the signatory is:
 
Professor Alan Rix, Pro-Vice Chancellor (Ipswich) of the Vice-Chancellor's Office, Brian Wilson Chancellery, University of Queensland, St Lucia, Brisbane,  Queensland 4072

The full name of the witness is 

........................................................................................................(Name of Officer) of The University of Queensland, St Lucia, Brisbane,  Queensland 4072
 

The authority of Professor Alan Rix, Pro-Vice Chancellor (Ipswich) to sign a workplace agreement arises 

........................................................................................................

........................................................................................................  















UNIVERSITY OF QUEENSLAND ENTERPRISE AGREEMENT (ACADEMIC STAFF) 2006 

Signature page for the National Tertiary Education Industry Union ("NTEU") 

Signed for the NTEU        		.....................................

Witness                          		.....................................



The name of the National Tertiary Education Industry Union is the National Tertiary Education Industry Union. 

The ABN is 38579 396 344 

The address of the National Tertiary Education Industry Union is PO Box 1323,  South Melbourne,  Victoria,  3205. 

The full name and address of the signatory is 

........................................................................................................(Name of National Officer) of PO Box 1323, South Melbourne, Victoria,  3205. 

The full name of the witness is 

........................................................................................................(Name of National Industrial Officer) of PO Box 1323, South Melbourne, Victoria,  3205. 

The authority of the 

........................................................................................................(Title of National Officer) to sign a workplace agreement arises from the registered rules of the NTEU, specifically Rule 21. 


SCHEDULE 1A - LIST OF RELEVANT POLICIES CONFIRMED BY SENATE
Preamble:
The policies in this list have been identified pursuant to the publication of the Higher Education Workplace Relations Requirements (HEWRRs) by the Federal Government on 29 April, 2005.

The HEWRRs require that workplace agreements must be "simple, flexible and principle-based documents". To comply with this requirement, details have been removed from the Enterprise Agreement certified on 10 May 2005 and placed in the following policies to ensure that matters negotiated in the most recent round continue to have effect, while compliance with the HEWRRs is maintained.

Additionally some matters contained in The Higher Education Academic Salaries Award 2002 and the Universities and Post Compulsory Academic Conditions Award 1999 have been incorporated into some of the policies listed below to clarify that they remain current conditions of employment for academic staff.

Not every policy referred to in the body of the Enterprise Agreement is listed in this Schedule 1A. Some policies which are noted in the Agreement remain in Schedule 1B because they do not contain details or procedures removed from the original documents. 

5.43 Employment Conditions 

5.43.1 Modes and Types of Employment 
5.43.6 Restructuring and Managing Change 
5.60 Leave

5.60.7 Long Service Leave
5.60.8 Special Leave
5.60.9 Parental Leave
5.60.10 Recreation Leave
       5.60.13 Bereavement /Compassionate Leave
5.60.19 Jury Service Leave
       5.60.30 Personal Leave


5.70 Performance Management and Grievance Procedures

5.70.10 Misconduct 
5.70.13 Medical Conditions Affecting Performance.
5.70.14 Redeployment Arising from Redundancy or Medical Condition.
5.70.16 Unsatisfactory Performance - Academic Staff

5.90 Cessation of Appointment

5.90.3 Termination of Employment














SCHEDULE IB - CODIFIED POLICIES
1.50 Ethical Conduct in the Workplace

1.50.2 Outside Work and Business Interests for University Staff

1.70 Equity

1.70.1 Equal Opportunity, Affirmative Action and the Status of Women
1.70.2 Management of Sexual Harassment Grievances
1.70.3 Racism
1.70.4 Family Support for Work and Study
1.70.5 Children on Campus
1.70.6 Discrimination, Harassment and Bullying
1.70.7 University Disability Policy

2. Workplace Health and Safety

2.10.3 Occupational Health and Safety
2.10.4 Staff Responsibilities for Occupational Health and Safety
2.25.1 Workers' Compensation Policy

4. Research and Postgraduate Studies

4.15.1 Intellectual Property Policy for Staff and Students

5.10 Travel

5.10.1 Travel Policy
5.10.2 Inter-Campus Transfer and Travel

5.30 Pre-employment and Orientation

5.30.1 Recruitment and Selection Policy
5.30.4 Employment of Relatives and other Close Associates
5.30.5 Job Sharing
5.30.12 Identification Cards for University Staff and Associates
5.30.14 Volunteer Workers
5.30.16 Pre-placement Medical Assessments
5.30.17 Equal Employment Opportunity and Anti-Discrimination
5.30.18 Indigenous Employment

5.41 Academic Staff - Appointments, Duties and Responsibilities

5.41.1 Academic Duties and Responsibilities (Lecturer, Senior Lecturer,            
       Reader, Professor)
5.41.2 Tutorial Fellows and Tutorial Assistants
5.41.5 Appointment, Probation and Confirmation of Continuing Appointment 
       (Academic Staff)
5.41.7 Guidelines for Allocation of Workload to Academic Staff
5.41.8 Casual Academic Staff Remuneration
5.41.9 Academic Freedom 

5.42 Research Related Staff - Specific Conditions of Employment

5.42.1 Research Academic and Research General Staff
5.42.14 Payment in Lieu of Recreation Leave - Research Staff

5.50 Reimbursements, Allowances, Loadings and Superannuation

5.50.3 Reimbursement of Re-establishment Expenses for New Appointees
5.50.5 Travel Allowances and Reimbursement of Travel Expenses
5.50.9 Market - Related Salary Loadings
5.50.12 Superannuation
5.50.13 Withholding of Salary During Imprisonment

5.60 Leave

5.60.5 Academic Staff Absences during Semesters
5.60.6 Leave Without Pay
5.60.14 Civil Emergency Service Leave
5.60.15 Conference Leave
5.60.16 Defence Forces Leave
5.60.20 Leave to Attend Court
5.60.23 Leave to Contest Elections and Hold Office

5.70 Performance Management and Grievance Procedures

5.70.1 Staff Appraisal
5.70.6 Staff Assistance Services
5.70.8 Staff Grievance Resolution
5.70.15 Annual Review for Academic Staff

5.80 Career Development, Increments and Staff Recognition

5.80.1 Staff Development Policy
5.80.2 Special Studies Program
5.80.8 Exchange of Staff with Another University
5.80.9 Secondment of Staff to Other Organisations
5.80.10 Internal and External Staff Secondments and Job Exchange
5.80.11 Secondment of Staff for Foreign Aid Work
5.80.12 Academic Promotion (level A - D )
5.80.16 Incremental Progression of Academic Staff
5.80.18 Professional Development Support for Staff with Carer Responsibilities
5.90 Cessation of Appointment

5.90.1 Resignation
5.90.2 Retirement Age
  Guidelines on Implementing and Managing Restructuring  Workplace Rehabilitation Policy and Procedures


SCHEDULE II - MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR ACADEMIC LEVELS (MSAL) 

Introduction 

Minimum standards for levels of academic staff, other than a casual, are set out in Schedule B - Minimum standards for academic levels (MSAL). The levels are differentiated by level of complexity, degree of autonomy, leadership requirements of the position and level of achievement of the academic. The responsibilities of academic staff may vary according to the specific requirements of the institution to meet its objectives, to different discipline requirements and/or to individual staff development.

An academic appointed to a particular level may be assigned and may be expected to undertake, responsibilities and functions of any level up to and including the level to which the academic is appointed or promoted. In addition, an academic may undertake elements of the work of a higher level in order to gain experience and expertise consistent with the requirements of an institution's promotion processes.

MSAL will not be used as a basis for claims for reclassification. 

Definitions:

For the purposes of schedule II and III:

Program means the study set for a particular award at the University.

Course means a discrete portion of a program with a distinct name and code and offered with an individual unit value.

Teaching and research academic staff 

Level A 

A Level A academic will work with the support and guidance from more senior academic staff and is expected to develop his or her expertise in teaching and research with an increasing degree of autonomy. A Level A academic will normally have completed four years of tertiary study or equivalent qualifications and experience and may be required to hold a relevant higher degree. 

A Level A academic will normally contribute to teaching at the institution, at a level appropriate to the skills and experience of the staff member, engage in scholarly, research and/or professional activities appropriate to his or her profession or discipline, and undertake limited administration primarily relating to his or her teaching and research activities at the institution. The most complex areas of course co-ordination should not be carried out by a Level A academic and development of course material will be carried out with guidance from more senior academic staff. The contribution to teaching of Level A academics will be primarily at undergraduate and graduate diploma level. 

Level B 

A Level B academic will undertake independent teaching and research in his or her discipline or related area. In research and/or scholarship and/or teaching a Level B academic will make an independent contribution through professional practice and expertise and coordinate and/or lead the activities of other staff, as appropriate to the discipline.
 
A Level B academic will normally contribute to teaching at undergraduate, honours and postgraduate level, including and initiating and developing course material engage in independent scholarship and/or research and/or professional activities appropriate to his or her profession or discipline. He or she will normally undertake administration primarily relating to his or her activities at the institution and may be required to perform the full academic responsibilities of and related administration for the coordination of an award program of the institution. 

Level C 

A Level C academic will make a significant contribution to the discipline at the national level. In research and/or scholarship and/or teaching he or she will make original contributions, which expand knowledge or practice in his or her discipline. 

A Level C academic will normally make a significant contribution to research and/or scholarship and/or teaching and administration activities of an organisational unit or an interdisciplinary area at undergraduate, honours and postgraduate level. He or she will normally play a major role or provide a significant degree of leadership in scholarly, research and/or professional activities relevant to the profession, discipline and/or community and may be required to perform the full academic responsibilities of and related administration for the coordination of a large award program or a number of smaller award programs of the institution.
 
Level D 

A Level D academic will normally make an outstanding contribution to the research and/or scholarship and/or teaching and administration activities of an organisational unit, including a large organisational unit, or interdisciplinary area.

A Level D academic will make an outstanding contribution to the governance and collegial life inside and outside of the institution and will have attained recognition at a national or international level in his or her discipline. He or she will make original and innovative contributions to the advancement of scholarship, research and teaching in his or her discipline. 

Level E 

A Level E academic will provide leadership and foster excellence in research, teaching and policy development in the academic discipline within the institution and within the community, professional, commercial or industrial sectors. 

A Level E academic will have attained recognition as an eminent authority in his or her discipline, will have achieved distinction at the national level and may be required to have achieved distinction at the international level. A Level E academic will make original, innovative and distinguished contributions to scholarship, researching and teaching in his or her discipline. He or she will make a commensurate contribution to the work of the institution. 

Research academic staff (inclusive of creative disciplines) 

Level A 

A Level A research academic will typically conduct research/scholarly activities under limited supervision either independently or as a member of a team and will normally hold a relevant higher degree. 

A Level A research academic will normally work under the supervision of academic staff at Level B or above, with an increasing degree of autonomy as the research academic gains skills and experience. A Level A research academic may undertake limited teaching, may supervise at undergraduate levels and may publish the results of the research conducted as sole author or in collaboration. He or she will undertake administration primarily relating to his or her activities at the institution. 

Level B 

A Level B research academic will normally have experience in research or scholarly activities, which have resulted in publications in refereed journals or other demonstrated scholarly activities.

A Level B research academic will carry out independent and/or team research. A Level B research academic may supervise postgraduate research students or projects and be involved in research training.

Level C 

A Level C research academic will make independent and original contributions to research, which have a significant impact on his or her field of expertise.

The work of the research academic will be acknowledged at a national level as being influential in expanding the knowledge of his or her discipline. This standing will normally be demonstrated by a strong record of published work or other demonstrated scholarly activities. 

A Level C research academic will provide leadership in research, including research training and supervision.

Level D 

A Level D research academic will make major original and innovative contributions to his or her field of study or research, which are recognised as outstanding nationally or internationally. 

A Level D research academic will play an outstanding role within his or her institution, discipline and/or profession in fostering the research activities of others and in research training.

Level E 

A Level E research academic will typically have achieved international recognition through original, innovative and distinguished contributions to his or her field of research, which is demonstrated by sustained and distinguished performance. 

A Level E research academic will provide leadership in his or her field of research, within his or her institution, discipline and/or profession and within the scholarly and/or general community. He or she will foster excellence in research, research policy and research training. 



SCHEDULE III - ACADEMIC STAFF SALARIES

ClassificationLevelScaleCurrent rate per annum at 1/1/05Rate per annum from 1/7/05 (2%)Rate per annum from 1/1/06 (3%)Rate per annum from 2/4/06 (1.5%)Rate per annum from 1/1/07 (4%)Rate per annum from 1/1/08 (3%)ProfessorE0101$113,504.56$115,774.65$119,247.89$121,036.61$125,878.07$129,654.41Reader/D0404$97,076.27$99,017.80$101,988.33$103,518.15$107,658.88$110,888.65Associate Professor0304$94,089.36$95,971.15$98,850.28$100,333.03$104,346.35$107,476.740204$91,102.09$92,924.13$95,711.85$97,147.53$101,033.43$104,064.430104$88,115.18$89,877.48$92,573.80$93,962.41$97,720.91$100,652.54Senior LecturerC0606$84,381.53$86,069.16$88,651.23$89,981.00$93,580.24$96,387.650506$82,141.70$83,784.53$86,298.07$87,592.54$91,096.24$93,829.130406$79,901.87$81,499.91$83,944.91$85,204.08$88,612.24$91,270.610306$77,660.94$79,214.16$81,590.58$82,814.44$86,127.02$88,710.830206$75,421.11$76,929.53$79,237.42$80,425.98$83,643.02$86,152.310106$73,180.58$74,644.19$76,883.52$78,036.77$81,158.24$83,592.99LecturerB0606$70,940.40$72,359.21$74,529.99$75,647.94$78,673.86$81,034.080506$68,700.18$70,074.18$72,176.41$73,259.06$76,189.42$78,475.100406$66,460.01$67,789.21$69,822.89$70,870.23$73,705.04$75,916.190306$64,219.81$65,504.21$67,469.34$68,481.38$71,220.64$73,357.260206$61,979.61$63,219.20$65,115.78$66,092.52$68,736.22$70,798.310106$59,739.45$60,934.24$62,762.27$63,703.70$66,251.85$68,239.41

ClassificationLevelScaleCurrent rate per annum at 1/1/05Rate per annum from 1/7/05 (2%)Rate per annum from 1/1/06 (3%)Rate per annum from 2/4/06 (1.5%)Rate per annum from 1/1/07 (4%)Rate per annum from 1/1/08 (3%)
Associate LecturerA0808$56,752.18$57,887.22$59,623.84$60,518.20$62,938.93$64,827.100708$54,811.17$55,907.39$57,584.61$58,448.38$60,786.32$62,609.910608*$52,869.09$53,926.47$55,544.26$56,377.42$58,632.52$60,391.500508$50,928.11$51,946.67$53,505.07$54,307.65$56,479.96$58,174.360408$48,986.40$49,966.13$51,465.11$52,237.09$54,326.57$55,956.370308$46,596.42$47,528.35$48,954.20$49,688.51$51,676.05$53,226.330208$44,207.16$45,091.30$46,444.04$47,140.70$49,026.33$50,497.120108$41,839.38$42,676.17$43,956.46$44,615.81$46,400.44$47,792.45* Any Level A Academic required to carry out full course coordination duties as part of his or her normal duties or who upon appointment holds or during appointment gains a relevant doctoral qualification will be paid a salary no lower than this salary point.Tutorial Fellow (half-time)0808$28,376.09$28,943.61$29,811.92$30,259.10$31,469.47$32,413.550708$27,405.59$27,953.70$28,792.31$29,224.19$30,373.16$31,304.950608$26,434.55$26,963.24$27,772.13$28,188.71$29,316.26$30,195.750508$25,464.06$25,973.34$26,752.54$27,153.83$28,239.98$29,087.180408$24,493.20$24,983.07$25,732.56$26,118.55$27,163.29$27,978.180308$23,298.21$23,764.18$24,477.10$24,844.26$25,838.03$26,613.170208$22,103.58$22,545.65$23,222.02$23,570.35$24,513.17$25,248.560108$20,919.69$21,338.09$21,978.23$22,307.91$23,200.22$23,896.23
ClassificationLevelScaleCurrent rate per annum at 1/1/05Rate per annum from 1/7/05 (2%)Rate per annum from 1/1/06 (3%)Rate per annum from 2/4/06 (1.5%)Rate per annum from 1/1/07 (4%)Rate per annum from 1/1/08 (3%)Tutorial Assistant0808$14,188.05$14,471.81$14,905.96$15,129.55$15,734.73$16,206.77(Honours or 0708$13,702.79$13,976.85$14,396.15$14,612.10$15,196.58$15,652.48equivalent0608$13,217.27$13,481.62$13,886.07$14,094.36$14,658.13$15,097.87Quarter-time)0508$12,732.03$12,986.67$13,376.27$13,576.91$14,119.99$14,543.590408$12,246.60$12,491.53$12,866.28$13,059.27$13,581.64$13,989.090308$11,649.11$11,882.09$12,238.55$11,649.11$12,919.01$13,306.580208$11,051.79$11,272.83$11,611.01$11,785.18$12,256.58$12,624.280108$10,459.85$10,669.04$10,989.12$11,153.95$11,600.11$11,948.11Tutorial Assistant0101$9,084.50$9,266.19$9,544.18$9,687.34$10,074.83$10,377.08(less than Honours)
ACADEMIC STAFF SALARIES - LOADINGS

Loading DescriptionCurrent rate per annum at 1/1/05Rate per annum from 1/7/05 (2%)Rate per annum from 1/1/06 (3%)Rate per annum from 2/4/06 (1.5%)Rate per annum from 1/1/07 (4%)Rate per annum from 1/1/08 (3%)Professorial Merit Loading $15,426$15,735$16,207$16,450$17,108$17,621Clinical Loading$19,647$20,040$20,641$20,951$21,789$22,443Para-clinical Loading$13,115$13,377$13,778$13,985$14,544$14,980Pre-clinical Loading$9,838$10,035$10,336$10,491$10,911$11,238Dental Loading$9,838$10,035$10,336$10,491$10,91111,238
ACADEMIC STAFF SALARIES - CASUAL RATESCurrent at
1/1/05From date agreement certifiedFrom
1/7/05From
1/1/06From
2/4/06From
1/1/07From 1/1/08CategoryWork LoadLecturingBasic1 hour delivery + 2 hours associated work time$112.18$114.98$117.28$120.81$122.61
127.52
$131.34Developed1 hour delivery + 3 hours associated work time$149.57$153.31$156.38$161.07$163.48
$170.02
$175.12Specialised1 hour delivery + 4 hours associated work time or distinguished person giving single lecture or small group of lectures$186.96$191.64$195.47$201.33$204.35


$212.53


$218.90Repeat1 hour delivery + 1 hour associated work time within 7 days$74.79$76.66$78.19$80.53$81.74

$85.01

$87.56Clinical - contact hour$114.91$117.79$120.14$123.75$125.60$130.63$134.54Repeat Clinical$76.63$78.55$80.12$82.52$83.76$87.11$89.73TutoringBase1 hour delivery + 2 hours associated work time$80.04$82.04$83.68$86.19$87.49
$90.99
$93.72Repeat1 hour delivery + 1 hour associated work time within 7 days$53.36$54.70$55.79$57.46$58.32

$60.66

$62.48
ACADEMIC STAFF SALARIES - CASUAL RATESCurrent at
1/1/05From date agreement certifiedFrom
1/7/05From
1/1/06From
2/4/06From
1/1/07From 1/1/08Tutoring cont'dBase plus autonomous academic judgment or major responsibility for tutorial sequence1 hour delivery + 2 hours associated work time$87.87$90.07$91.87$94.62$96.04$99.89$102.88Repeat1 hour delivery + 1 hour associated work time within 7 days$58.58$60.04$61.25$63.08$64.03$66.59
$68.59Base plus full course co-ordination or PhD1 hour delivery + 2 hours associated work time$95.70$98.09$100.05$103.05$104.60$108.78$112.05Repeat1 hour delivery + 1 hour associated work time within 7 days$63.80$65.39$66.70$68.70$69.73$72.52$74.70Clinical - contact hour$76.28$78.19$79.75$82.15$83.38$86.71$89.32Specialist Music  contact hour$69.19$70.92$72.34$74.51$75.63$78.65$81.01IML - contact hour$44.75$45.87$46.78$48.19$48.91$50.87$52.39MarkingBase1 hour$26.68$27.35$27.89$28.73$29.16$30.33$31.24Base plus course co-ordination or PhD1 hour$31.90$32.70$33.35$34.35$34.87$36.26$37.35Advanced - level B status - supervising examiner1 hour$37.39$38.33$39.09$40.27$40.87$42.51$43.78Advanced - level B status - supervising examiner plus course co-ordination or PhD1 hour$37.39$38.33$39.09$40.27$40.87$42.51$43.78
ACADEMIC STAFF SALARIES - CASUAL RATESCurrent at
1/1/05From date agreement certifiedFrom
1/7/05From
1/1/06From
2/4/06From
1/1/07From 1/1/08Music Accompanying with Special Education ServicesBase 1 hour + 1 hour associated work time$53.35$54.68$55.78$57.45$58.31
$60.64
$62.46Base plus course co-ordination or PhD1 hour + 1 hour associated work time$63.80$65.39$66.70$68.70$69.73
$75.52
$74.70Other Required Academic ActivityBase1 hour demonstrator working under normal supervision or additional tutorial involvement or base teaching - external studies or personal interviews for social work$26.68$27.35$27.89$28.73$29.16



$30.33



$31.24Base plus autonomous academic judgement or major responsibility for a tutorial sequence1 hour demonstrator or- higher teaching - external studies, nursing sisters - medical student teaching$29.29$30.02$30.62$31.54$32.01


$33.30


$34.29Base plus course co-ordination PhD1 hour$31.90$32.70$33.35$34.35$34.87
$36.26
$37.35Clinical teaching - psychiatry - notional hour$50.69$51.96$53.00$54.59$55.40
$57.62
$59.35Other clinical teaching - notional hour$33.77$34.62$35.31$36.37$36.91
$38.39
$39.54
ACADEMIC STAFF SALARIES - CASUAL RATESCurrent at
1/1/05From date agreement certifiedFrom
1/7/05From
1/1/06From
2/4/06From
1/1/07From 1/1/08Other Required Academic Activity cont'dMusic - local artist other than student or full-time member of the School of Music recital$145.35$148.98$151.96$156.52$158.87

$165.23

$170.18Music - visiting and overseas artist other than the lunch time recital$193.82$198.66$202.64$208.72$211.85

$220.32

$226.93Music - local artist other than student or full-time of the School of Music - recital at least 1.5 hours$242.24$248.29$253.26$260.85$264.77


$275.36


$283.62

SCHEDULE IV - DUTIES AND PAY CALCULATION OF CASUAL ACADEMIC STAFF


Formulae for casual staff pay rates

The rates of payment for casual staff are derived from three base rates calculated using the following formulae:

	Lecturing and higher marking rate

The base rate applicable to lecturing or for purposes of the higher marking rate is determined by reference to the second step of the full-time Level B scale (the rate) and calculated as 
rate/52  +23%
  37.5

Rate applicable to performance of other duties involving full-time subject coordination or possession of a relevant doctoral qualification
	
	The base rate applicable where the duties include full subject coordination or the academic possesses a relevant doctoral qualification is determined by reference to the sixth step of the full-time Level A scale (the rate) and calculated as:
rate/52  +23%
  37.5

Rate applicable to all other duties

	The base rate applicable to all other duties including tutoring rates not covered by A.2.1.2 is determined by reference to the second step of the full-time Level A scale (the rate) and calculated as 
rate/52  +23%
  37.5

Definition of the categories and duties of Casual Academic Staff 

Casual academic staff are paid according to the category of their duties. The rates for each category are in Schedule III of this agreement. The relevant definitions are set out below.
Casual Lecturing
Lecture means any educational delivery described as a lecture in a course or unit outline, or in an official timetable issued by the employer.

A casual academic staff member required to provide a lecture (or equivalent delivery through other than face-to-face teaching mode) of a specified duration and relatedly provide directly associated non contact duties in the nature of preparation, reasonably contemporaneous marking and student consultation shall be paid at the appropriate rate for each hour of lecture delivered according to one of the following categories: 


Basic Lecture: 1 hour of delivery and 2 hours of associated working time.

Developed Lecture: 1 hour of delivery and 3 hours of associated working time.

Specialised Lecture: 1 hour of delivery and 4 hours of associated working time.

Repeat Lecture: 1 hour of delivery and 1 hour of associated working time, provided that the hourly rate in a repeat lecture applies to a lecture in the same subject matter within a period of 7 days and any marking and student consultation reasonably contemporaneous with it.

Casual Tutoring
Tutorial means any educational delivery described as a tutorial in a course or unit outline, or in an official timetable issued by the employer.

A casual academic staff member required to deliver or present a tutorial (or equivalent delivery through other than face-to-face teaching mode) of a specified duration and relatedly provide directly associated non contact duties in the nature of preparation, reasonably contemporaneous marking and student consultation shall be paid at the appropriate rate for each hour of tutorial delivered according to one of the following categories:

Normal Tutorial: 1 hour of delivery and 2 hours of associated working time.

Repeat Tutorial: 1 hour of delivery and 1 hour of associated working time, provided that the hourly rate in a repeat tutorial applies to a tutorial in the same subject matter within a period of 7 days and any marking and student consultation reasonably contemporaneous with it.

Normal Tutorial - PhD/Coordination: 1 hour of delivery and 2 hours of associated working time in circumstances where full subject coordination duties are included as part of normal duties or the staff member holds a relevant doctoral qualification.

Repeat Tutorial - PhD/Coordination: 1 hour of delivery and 1 hour of associated working time, in circumstances where full subject coordination duties are included as part of normal duties or the staff member holds a relevant doctoral qualification, provided that the hourly rate in a repeat tutorial applies to a tutorial in the same subject matter within a period of 7 days and any marking and student consultation reasonably contemporaneous with it.

Music Accompanying
Music accompanying means the provision of music accompaniment to one or more students or staff in the course of teaching by another member of academic staff in circumstances where the accompanist deploys educational expertise in repertoire development or expression for student concert or examination purposes, but does not include concert accompanying, vocal coaching or musical directing. 

A casual academic staff member required to provide music accompanying with directly associated non contact duties in the nature of preparation shall be at the appropriate rate for each hour of music accompanying delivered according to one of the following categories:

Music Accompanying - Normal: 1 hour of delivery and 1 hour of associated working time.

Music Accompanying - PhD Coordination: 1 hour of delivery and 1 hour of associated working time, in circumstances where full subject coordination duties are required as part of normal duties or the staff member holds a relevant doctoral qualification.


Undergraduate Clinical Nurse Education
Undergraduate clinical nurse education means the conduct of undergraduate nurse education in a clinical setting.

A casual academic staff member required to provide undergraduate clinical nurse education with directly associated non contact duties in the nature of preparation, reasonably contemporaneous marking and student consultation shall be paid at the appropriate rate for each hour of clinical nurse education delivered according to one of the following categories:

Normal Preparation Required: 1 hour of delivery and 1 hour of associated working time.

Little Preparation Required: 1 hour of delivery and 0.5 hour of associated working time.

Normal Preparation Required - PhD/Coordination: 1 hour of delivery and 1 hour of associated working time, in circumstances where full subject coordination duties are required as part of normal duties or the staff member holds a relevant doctoral qualification.

Little Preparation Required - PhD/Coordination: 1 hour of delivery and 0.5 hour of associated working time, in circumstances where full subject coordination duties are required as part of normal duties or the staff member holds a relevant doctoral qualification.

Casual Marking
A casual academic required to undertake marking will be paid at the appropriate rate for each hour of marking according to one of the following categories:

Higher Level Marking: Marking as a supervising examiner or marking requiring a significant exercise of academic judgement appropriate to an academic at Level B.

Standard Marking

Standard Marking - PhD/Coordination: Standard marking, in circumstances where full subject coordination duties are required as part of normal duties or the staff member holds a relevant doctoral qualification

Other Required Academic Activities
Other Required Academic Activities includes work that a person, acting as or on behalf of the University requires the casual academic to perform and that is performed in accordance with any such requirement, being the work of the following nature of, but not limited to: 
* the conduct of practical classes, demonstrations, workshops, student field excursions; 
* the conduct of clinical sessions other than clinical nurse education; 
* the conduct of performance or visual art studio sessions; 
* musical coaching, repetiteurship, musical accompanying other than with special educational service; 
* development of teaching and subject materials such as the preparation of subject guides, reading lists and basic activities associated with subject coordination;
* consultation with students; 
* supervision; 
* attendance at departmental and/or faculty meetings as required;
* moderating a discussion forum, being available for student consultation online or in person, being available for consultation/assistance on a specific activity such as a simulation and that no preparation or follow up is required outside of paid time; and 
* attendance at any activities set out in this Schedule from 1 to 5. 

This above list is not intended to be exhaustive, but is provided by way of examples and guidance.

A casual academic staff member required to undertake other academic activities will be paid the appropriate rate for each hour of such activities  according to one of the following categories

Other Required Academic Activities

Other Required Academic Activities - PhD/Coordination:  In circumstances where full subject coordination duties are required as part of normal duties or the staff member holds a relevant doctoral qualification.


1

