Reunite Service - terms and conditions



Contents


1 Definitions

2 Our contract with you

3 Your web account with us

4 Price, payment and service provision

5 Cancellation of order

6 Dissatisfaction with the Services

7 Disclaimers 

8 Website Security

9 Confidential Information and Intellectual Property Rights 

10 Your email address

11 Indemnity

12 Termination

13 Miscellaneous provisions


Trading terms and conditions of Roxcel ID Pty Ltd, trading under license from Crime Stoppers Queensland Limited as Reunite Service



These terms and conditions regulate the business relationship between you and us.  When you begin a Registration for the Reunite Service with us, you agree to be bound by them.

No person under the age of 18 years may complete a Registration for the Reunite Service. If you are under 18, please ask an adult for help with your Registration.


We are:	Roxcel ID Pty Ltd, (trading under license from Crime Stoppers Queensland Limited as Reunite Service)

Our address is:	Suite 23, 3-15 Dennis Road, Springwood, QLD 4127, Australia.

Customer service:	reunite@csqld.com


Country of domicile:	Australia



You are:	a visitor to Our Website / our customer



The terms and conditions


1 Definitions

In this agreement:

"Confidential Information"	includes but is not limited to any information whether technical or otherwise, advice, goods, services, techniques, data, formulae and other proprietary information contained within Our Website or otherwise provided to you as a part of, or in relation to, the Goods and Services.

"Content"	means any material in any form published on Our Website by us or any third party with our consent.

"Goods and Services"	means the Reunite Service, Reunite Service Pack and Registration.

"Our Website"	means the entire computing hardware and software installation that is or supports the website http://www.reuniteservice.com.au/.

"Reunite Service"	means the "Reunite Service" as detailed on Our Website and provided by us in conjunction with Crime Stoppers Queensland Limited and the Crime Stoppers call centers to provide help with the reuniting of separated parties.

"Reunite Service Pack"	means the posted pack delivered to our customers upon the completion of a registration, containing the personalised Reunite Service identification card and wristband or wristbands

"Registration"	means the entire process required to register with the Reunite Service. 

"Registration Fee"	means the fee payable for the Goods and Services as a part of Registration.

2 
Our contract with you

The following terms and conditions apply, so far as the context allows, to you as a visitor to Our Website and in any event to you as a buyer or prospective buyer of our Goods and Services:

2.1 No contract for the provision of the Goods and Services shall arise until your Registration has been confirmed in accordance with clause 2.2.

2.2 Registration shall be confirmed upon the clearing of the payment of the Registration Fee by way of email sent to the email address nominated by you at the time of submitting your application for registration through Our Website, 

2.3 Your rights and obligations under the contract formed upon confirmation of Registration are personal to you and may not be assigned without our prior written consent.  You hereby agree to indemnify us for any loss which we incur as a result of any use by another person of the Goods and Services provided to you.

2.4 If in future, you buy Goods and Services from us under any arrangement which does not involve your payment via Our Website, these terms still apply so far as they can be applied.







3 
Your web account with us

3.1 You agree that you have provided, and will continue to provide accurate, up to date, and complete information about yourself.  We need this information to provide you with our Goods and Services.

3.2 If you use Our Website, you are solely responsible for maintaining the confidentiality of your account and password and for preventing the unauthorized use of your account by other persons.

3.3 You agree to accept responsibility for all activities that occur under your account. You should tell us immediately if you believe some person has accessed your account without your authority and also log in to your account and change your password.


4 
Price, payment and service provision

4.1 All payments are to be made in AUD. 

4.2 The Goods and Services you are paying for are specifically the production and delivery of the Reunite Service Pack and the processing of the Registration. The Reunite Service is provided free of charge.

4.3 The Reunite Service Pack will be posted to you within 10 working days of the completion and receipt of correct Registration and declaration forms. Confirmation of your Registration is provided in accordance with clause 2.2.

4.4 If we are not able to provide your Goods and Services within 10 days of the date of your order, we shall notify you by e-mail to tell you the likely provision date.

4.5 Our Goods and Services will be provided by posted mail and telephone making them available to you in the way we have explained in Our Website.

4.6 We reserve the right to change the nature or provision of the Goods and Services at any time.  Information regarding any such changes shall be made available on Our Website.

4.7 If a change we make in the provision of the Goods and Services, involves action on your part, and you do not take that action within a reasonable time after requested to do so, we will be entitled to immediately terminate the provision of the Goods and Services to you. 
4.8 
We will do our best to maintain Our Website so that you have constant use, but there will be times when your use may be interrupted. Interruption to the Services for reasonable periods for maintenance or causes beyond our control is not a ground for repayment of money you have paid. When we are aware of the likelihood of down time, we will tell you in advance. 

4.9 While every effort is made to ensure that the Reunite Service is operating continuously, we can not and do not guarantee that the service will reunite separated parties. The Reunite Service is provided without warranties of any kind, either express or implied.

4.10 The safety of your children and those in your care is your responsibility. We are not responsible for the safety of your children and those in your care and we offer the Reunite Service to assist you in moments of need only.

4.11 By completing the Registration you give your express permission for the Reunite Service to use the information you have provided to assist in reuniting you with the person being registered and that this may include the broadcasting of the information via all forms of electronic and hard copy media.


5 Cancellation of order

5.1 You may cancel your order for the Goods and Services at any time before the expiry of 7 working days from the date of order, not including the day you ordered. No cancelations will be accepted after the Reunite Service Pack has been delivered to you.

5.2 In the event that your order is cancelled within the period afforded under clause 5.1, we will endeavour to refund monies paid by you in relation to the cancelled order within 30 days of cancellation.

6 
Dissatisfaction with the Services

6.1 The procedure for complaints about our Goods and Services is set out on Our Website.  If you do not follow this procedure, we may be unable to identify you and the Goods and Services you have received.

7 Disclaimers 

7.1 We reserve the right to make improvements or changes to Our Website, the Content, or to any of the Goods and Services, at any time and without advance notice.

7.2 We give no warranty and make no representation, express or implied, as to:
7.2.1 the adequacy or appropriateness of the Goods and Services for your purpose;
7.2.2 the truth of any Content on Our Website published by someone other than us;
7.2.3 any implied warranty or condition as to merchantability or fitness of the goods and Services for a  purpose other than that for which the Goods and Services are commonly used;
7.2.4 compatibility of Our Website with your equipment, software or telecommunications connection.

7.3 We shall not be liable to you for any loss howsoever sustained, relating to or arising in connection with your use of or access or reference to Our Website or any portion of the Content.

7.4 Our Website contains links to other Internet websites outside our power and control. You acknowledge and agree that we shall not be liable in any way for the content of any such linked website, nor for any loss or damage arising from your use of any such website.

7.5 We are not liable in any circumstances for special, indirect or consequential loss or any damages whatsoever resulting from loss of use, loss of data or loss of revenues or profits, whether in an action of contract, negligence or otherwise, arising out of or in connection with your use of Our Website or the purchase of Goods and Services.
7.6 In any event, including the event that any term or condition or obligation on our part ("Implied Term") is implied into these conditions by law, then our liability is limited to the maximum extent permitted by law, to the value of the goods or services you have purchased.

8 Website Security

8.1 You agree that you will not, and will not allow any other person to violate or attempt to violate any aspect of the security of Our Website.

8.2 You may not use any software tool for the purpose of extracting data from our website.

8.3 You understand that any such violation is unlawful and that any contravention of law may result in civil and criminal prosecution.


9 Confidential Information and Intellectual Property Rights 

9.1 You agree to keep safe the Confidential Information and not to disclose or make available for disclosure to any person, any part of it. 

9.2 We will defend the intellectual property rights in connection with our goods and Services and Our Website, including all copyright, trademarks or designs in the Content whether provided by us or by any other content provider (including copyright in:   text, graphics, logos, icons, images, audio clips, digital downloads, data, and software).

9.3 You may not copy, modify, publish, transmit, transfer or sell, reproduce, create derivative works from, distribute, perform, display, or in any way exploit any of the Content, in whole or in part.

9.4 You may not use our name or logos or trade marks or any other Content on any website of yours or that of any other person.



10 Your email address

10.1 You represent that any username or email address selected by you does not interfere with the rights of any third party and has not been selected for any unlawful purpose.

10.2 You acknowledge and agree that if we believe such selection does interfere with the rights of any third party or is being selected for any unlawful purpose, we may immediately suspend the use of such name or email address, and you will indemnify us for any claim or demand that arises out of your selection.

10.3 You acknowledge and agree that we shall not be liable to you in the event that we are ordered or required by a court or judicial authority, to desist from using or permitting the use of a particular domain name as part of a name or email address.


11 
Indemnity

You agree to indemnify us against any claim or demand, including lawyers' fees on a full indemnity basis, made by any third party due to or arising in any way out of your use of Our Web Site, your posting any Material, or the infringement by you, or by any other person using your computer, of any intellectual property or other right of any person.

12 Termination

12.1 We may, by way of email or other written correspondence immediately terminate your contract with us for the provision of the Goods and Services without the payment of any compensation and without any liability to you, in the event that you are in breach of any of your obligations under these terms and conditions.

12.2 In the event that we exercise our rights under clause 12.1, such action shall be without prejudice to any right to claim compensation for any breach of these terms and conditions committed by you prior to termination taking place.

13 Miscellaneous provisions

13.1 You hereby agree to the use of electronic communications including, but not limited to email and website based communications in the negotiation and formation of all contracts between you and us in relation to Registration and the provision of the Goods and Services.

13.2 You herby agree that you will not raise any objection to the use of electronic communications as referred to in clause 13.1 in the formation of a valid and enforceable contract.

13.3 Where we provide goods or services without specific charge to you, then it (or they) is deemed to be provided free of charge, and not to be associated with any other goods or service for which a charge is made.  Accordingly, there is no contractual or other obligation upon us in respect of those goods or services.

13.4 Nothing in this agreement or on Our Website shall confer on any third party any benefit or obligation.

13.5 If any of these terms is at any time held by any jurisdiction to be void, invalid or unenforceable, then it shall be treated as changed or reduced, only to the extent minimally necessary to bring it within the laws of that jurisdiction and to prevent it from being void and it shall be binding in that changed or reduced form. Subject to that, each provision shall be interpreted as severable and shall not in any way affect any other of these terms.

13.6 No waiver by us, in exercising any right, power or provision in this agreement shall operate as a waiver of any other right or of that same right at a future time; nor shall any delay in exercise of any power or right be interpreted as a waiver.

13.7 In the event of a dispute arising out of or in connection with these terms or any contract between you and us, then you agree to attempt to settle the dispute by engaging in good faith with us in a process of mediation before commencing arbitration or litigation.

13.8 We are not liable for any breach of our obligations resulting from causes beyond our reasonable control including strikes of our own employees.

13.9 This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the law of Queensland, Australia. This agreement shall not be governed by the United Nations Convention on Contracts for the International Sale of Goods, the application of which is hereby expressly excluded.


