Contract of Sale of Frozen Semen
AGENT FOR STALLION OWNER/LESSEE
ITEM 1J K EVERLY & S E E SCOTT trading as WATERVIEW PARK
ABN 37 800 656 954
of 81-81A Lower Somerville Road, Baxter in the State of Victoria, 3911.
Sheree Scott: (03) 5971 2278	Mobile: 0413 512 564
Joanne Everly: (03) 5978 0924                     Mobile: 0410 678 848 
Email: info@waterviewpark.com.au   Website: www.waterviewpark.com.au
MARE OWNER/LESSEE
ITEM 2Name/s:

Address:

Telephone Home:  	Telephone Business:

Facsimile:  	Mobile:

Email:
STALLION
ITEM 3RHYTHM & BLUES            ICON                  (circle one)
NUMBER OF DOSES
ITEM 4Pursuant to clause 10 and 11 of this Contract.SERVICE FEE
ITEM 5$ANCILLARY FEE
ITEM 6  $275.00
BALANCE
ITEM 7$VETERINARY SURGEON'S DETAILS
ITEM 8
Surgery Name:
Contact Name/s:
Address:

Telephone:  	Facsimile:  

Email: 
DETAILS OF NOMINATED MARE
ITEM 9Name:				Date of Birth:

Breed:				Colour:

Height:				Sire:

Dam:				Dam's Sire:BRANDSNS:				OS:

Thigh:				Neck:REGISTRATION NUMBER/S
Date:

			
For and on behalf of the Seller	For and on behalf of the Purchaser
TERMS & CONDITIONS
As follows:
1. In this contract:-
"the ancillary fee" includes two-way freight, one week's tank hire and nitrogen.
"artificial insemination" the insemination of chilled semen by the veterinary surgeon.
"the collection fee" includes collection, one week's tank and transport for each artificial insemination in the sum of $330.00 inc GST.
 "the mare" is the nominated mare as described in item 9 of this Contract.
"negative pregnancy test" means a 15-21 day confirmed negative pregnancy with veterinary Pregnancy Report.
"positive pregnancy test" means a 42 day confirmed pregnancy with veterinary Pregnancy Report.
"the purchaser" is the person/s who owns or leases the mare and shall include the purchaser's personal representatives, successors and assigns.
"the seller" is Waterview Park acting on behalf of the stallion owner or lessee and shall include the seller's personal representatives, successors and assigns.
"the semen" means the number of doses of frozen semen as set out in item 4.
"the stallion" is the donor sire described in item 3 from which frozen semen is supplied.
"the tank" is the container that stores and transports the semen.
"veterinary surgeon" shall mean the veterinary surgeon or technician named in item 8 or his/her nominee.
Sale & Purchase of Semen
2. The seller agrees to sell to the purchaser, who agrees to buy from the seller, on the terms and conditions set out herein, the semen as set out in item 4 from the stallion, described in item 3.
Price
3. The service fee for the semen is set out in item 5 and the ancillary fee is set out in item 6.
4. The service fee and ancillary fee shall be paid as set out in item 7 payable in full by the purchaser on return of this contract together with a copy of the mare's registration and/or breed papers.  The semen will not be ordered until these fees are received.
Acknowledgments
5. The purchaser acknowledges that the seller shall not be responsible for any delays that may occur in relation to transport, import, quarantine and customs clearance of the semen to Australia and New Zealand.  The approximate date of import of the semen is an approximate only and the purchaser acknowledges that unexpected delays can occur.
6. The seller does not indemnify the purchaser for any losses that may occur as a result of any delay that may occur.  The purchaser acknowledges that it is the responsibility of the purchaser to obtain insurance cover for such events.
7. The purchaser is required to instruct the veterinary surgeon to return the tank within one (1) week to the sender noted on the return consignment note.
8. The purchaser acknowledges that should the tank not be returned by the veterinary surgeon within one (1) week of delivery of the semen a fee of $5.50 (including GST) per day will be charged until the tank is returned.
9. The purchaser acknowledges that the semen shall not be artificially inseminated by way of endoscopic insemination (EI) or deep uterine insemination (DUI) otherwise all guarantees provided under this contract will be null and void.
10. The Artificial Insemination Record (to be supplied by the seller) is to be completed by the veterinary surgeon and returned to the seller.  The purchaser acknowledges that a Service Certificate will not be forwarded to the purchaser unless the seller has received the Artificial Insemination Record.
11. The purchaser agrees to use the dose/s only on the mare named above in this contract and shall have a licensed veterinarian verify in writing by completing and signing a Veterinary Certificate of Insemination that the dose/s has/ve been used only to artificially inseminate the mare above in this contract.  The Veterinary Certificate of Insemination and Pregnancy Examination (to be supplied by the seller) is due within sixty (60) days of the last insemination date or no later than the 1st day of April.  Should more than one mare be inseminated, without the prior written consent of the seller and payment of additional service fee, the purchaser acknowledges that the seller has the right to charge a service fee for every mare inseminated other than the nominated mare.
9.	A positive pregnancy test result cannot be guaranteed to a maiden mare under the age of three years.  If the mare owner decides to breed with such a mare all guarantees are null and void.
10.	The seller shall supply three (3) doses of the semen sufficient for three (3) artificial inseminations per shipment.  If the mare receives a negative pregnancy test result after the third artificial insemination, the purchaser shall receive further shipments of three (3) doses of the semen until the mare receives a 42 day positive pregnancy test result.  Ancillary fees including transport, tank hire, nitrogen and storage for the further doses will be at the purchaser's care and expense.
11.	If the mare receives a 42 day positive pregnancy test result from the first or second dose of any shipment of semen, the remaining dose/s will be returned to the seller within ten (10) days of the 42 day positive pregnancy test result at the purchaser's care and expense.  The purchaser is responsible for the proper storage and handling of the dose/s.  The purchaser acknowledges that if the unused dose/s are not returned to the seller in good condition the full service fee will be charged for each dose remaining.
12.	The seller agrees that should the mare receive a 42 day positive pregnancy test result and the resulting foal does not live to seven (7) days the purchaser shall be entitled to re-breed the mare until the mare delivers a foal that stands and nurses to a maximum period of seven (7) days.  The purchaser must provide the Loss of Pregnancy Report within seven (7) days of the foaling or abortion of the foal.  This report will state that the mare was properly cared for.  Proper care shall include, but shall not necessarily be limited to, proper feeding and nutrition, regular de-worming with products approved for pregnant mares, vaccinations and proper intervention during foaling if necessary.
13.	If the mare fails to fall pregnant in the first breeding season or does not carry the embryo for more than 42 days the purchaser may request a partial refund of the service fee.  The purchaser will be entitled to a 50% refund of the original service fee paid in Item 5.
14.	If the required reports are not received by the agent as instructed, all guarantees and/or registration possibilities are null and void.
Default of Purchaser
15.1	If the purchaser defaults in payment of any part of the purchase price within seven (7) days of the times for payment set out in item 7, the seller may, without prejudice to any other right the sell may have under this agreement or at law, give written notice (the notice) requiring the purchaser to remedy the default within seven (7) days.
15.2	If notice is given under sub-clause 15.1, in addition to the service fee to be paid the purchaser shall pay:
(a) all reasonable costs and expenses (including legal costs incurred by the seller) as a result of the default; and 
(b) interest on the outstanding part of the service fee at the rate of 11% per annum, calculated on a daily basis from the due date of payment.
15.3	In the event of the purchaser failing to remedy the default in accordance with the notice, the seller may, without prejudice to any other right under this agreement, cancel this agreement and re-sell the semen (whether by auction or private treaty) to any other person.
15.4	Upon the cancellation of this agreement pursuant to this clause, the purchaser shall pay to the seller as and by way of liquidated damages:
(a) an amount, equal to the difference between the amount payable by the purchaser under this agreement at the appropriate due date, and the amount (after deducting all selling, legal, advertising and other reasonable expenses of the seller) obtained upon re-sale of the semen;
(b) interest as provided; and
(c) the costs of default.
Default by the Seller
16.	If the stallion is unavailable at the time of import the service fee and ancillary fee paid by the purchaser will be refunded in full.
Law
17.	The proper law of this contract shall be the State of Victoria in Australia and the parties agree to submit to the exclusive jurisdiction of the courts of that state.
GST
18.1	In this agreement:
"GST" means GST within the meaning of the GST Act.
"GST Act" means A New Tax System (Goods and Services Tax) Act 1999.
18.2	The service fee and ancillary fee as set out in item 5 and item 6 shall be inclusive of GST.
18.3	The seller acknowledges that it is registered for GST.  Where this agreement requires the purchaser to reimburse or contribute to an amount payable by the seller to a third party, the amount required to be reimbursed or contributed by the purchaser to the seller shall be the amount paid by the seller to the third party.

I/We the undersigned owner or lessee of the mare do hereby acknowledge having read, understood and agreed to the terms and conditions set forth herein.



	
For and on behalf of the Seller
Date:



	
For and on behalf of the Purchaser
Date:




DESCRIPTION OF MARE




REAR VIEWFORE LEGS 
HIND LEGS
BRANDS/FREEZE MARK





HEAD

NECK

LEGS: LF
              RF
              LH
              RH

BODY

The diagram and written description must agree and must be sufficiently detailed to ensure the positive identification of the horse in future.  White markings must be shown in red and the written description completed using black ink in block capitals or typescript.  If there are no markings, this fact must be stated in the written description.

All head and neck whorls should be marked ("X") and described in detail.  Other whorls should be similarly recorded in greys and in horses lacking sufficient other distinguishing marks.  Acquired marks (" ") and other distinguishing marks, e.g. prophet's thumb mark ("("), wall eye, etc., should always be noted.
