Consultant licence registration - 
'RRL	 database'

Licence details

Product: RRL CD-ROM Database

Name of user (organisation/individual)
SURNAMEGIVEN NAMESContact person (if user is an organisation)
SURNAMEGIVEN NAMES

Residential or postal address
POSTCODEContact details
WORK   (         )HOME   (         )MOBILEFACSIMILE    (         )

Licence signature
You acknowledge that by delivering a signed copy of this document to Us, You create a binding contract commencing on the date of delivery, incorporating the terms and conditions set out overleaf.
Signature (by/on behalf of user)
SIGNATUREPRINT FULL NAMEDATETITLE

Signature of witness
SIGNATUREPRINT FULL NAME OF WITNESSDATETITLE









1. INTERPRETATION
'Agreement' means the contract between Us and You constituted in the manner described on the previous page.
'Derivative', in relation to the Product, means any copy of the Product or a substantial part of the Product, or any version of, merged form of or other Material created from or based on, the Product, whether or not amounting to a reproduction of the Product within the meaning of the Copyright Act 1968.
'Exploit', in relation to the Product, means to manufacture, sell, hire or otherwise commercialise a product or process, or to provide a service, incorporating the Product.
'Fee' means the fee referred to in the Licence Details on the previous page and paid by You to Us prior to delivery of the Product.
'Intellectual Property' includes all copyright and neighbouring rights, all rights in relation to inventions (including patent rights), plant varieties, registered and unregistered trademarks (including service marks), registered designs, confidential information (including trade secrets and know how) and circuit layouts, and all other rights resulting from intellectual activity in the industrial, scientific, literary or artistic fields.
'Licence' means the licence granted under clause 3.
'Material' includes documents, equipment or goods and any medium whatsoever in which information is embodied.
'Product' means the product referred to in the Licence Details on the previous page.
'We', 'Our' or 'Us', mean the Australian Communications and Media Authority a body corporate continued in existence under section 18 of the Australian Communications and Media Authority Act 2005.
'You' or 'Your', as the case requires, refers to the user specified in the Licence Details on the previous page.
2. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY
2.1 Intellectual Property in the Product vests in Us.
2.2 All rights in the Product are reserved, and You may not make copies of the Product, or any part of the Product, except as expressly provided in this Licence.
3. LICENCE
3.1 We grant You a non-transferable, non-exclusive Licence to use the Product personally or for the internal purposes of Your organisation (as the case may be), but not to Exploit the Product or supply the Product to any third party.
3.2 This Licence entitles You to use, produce and adapt the Product, including the right to incorporate the Product in an electronic information retrieval system, to merge the Product with other Material and to develop Derivative Material based on the Product.
3.3 This Licence does not permit You to use names or addresses contained in the Product for the purposes of conducting unsolicited mail advertising.
3.4 This Licence does not permit You to Exploit the Product. You undertake to refer any such requirement to Us in advance. A separate Distribution Licence may be made available covering such use, subject to payment of an additional fee.
3.5 In this clause 3, any act done in relation to a Derivative of the Product shall be deemed to be done in relation to the Product.
3.6	You undertake to retain the original copyright notice appearing on the Product as supplied to You, and to use the same on or in relation to any copy or Derivative of the Product which might be created by You.
3.7	We warrant that We have the right to grant this licence.



4. DURATION OF LICENCE
4.1	This licence takes effect from the commencement of the Agreement, and continues indefinitely until terminated in accordance with clause 4.
4.2	We may terminate this Licence immediately by notice in writing to You in the event of Your breach of any term or condition or the Agreement.
4.3	You may terminate this Licence at any time upon giving one months notice to Us.
4.4	On termination of this Licence, You agree to destroy all copies of the Product, and (at Our discretion) al Derivatives of the Product, in Your possession or control. You also agree to forward to Us a certificate that these products have been destroyed.
5. DISCLAIMER
5.1	The information contained in the Product should not be acted upon in any particular circumstance without seeking appropriate professional advice on that matter or circumstance.
5.2	We have taken all care possible in the preparation and presentation of this Product but do not accept responsibility for any actions taken as a consequence of the information provided in the Product.
6. GENERAL
6.1	This Agreement represents our entire understanding and agreement regarding the Product and supersedes any inconsistent prior proposal, representation or agreement, written or oral. You agree that any document which You attach to this Agreement will have no binding effect, legally or otherwise, unless that document is in writing and signed by both You and Us.
6.2	Failure or delay by Us in enforcing any provision of this Agreement does not mean that We no longer regard that provision as binding. A waiver by Us of a provision of this Agreement shall not constitute a waiver of any other breach of this Agreement.
6.3	You may not assign, either in whole or in part, the benefit or burden of this Agreement without Our prior written consent.
6.4	If any provision of this Agreement is unlawful, void, or for any reason unenforceable, it shall be deemed severable from, and shall in no way affect the validity or enforceability of, the remaining provisions of this Agreement.
6.5	This Agreement shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the Australian Capital Territory and the parties agree to submit exclusively to the jurisdiction of the courts of that Territory.
7. NOTICES
7.1	All notices, requests or other communications arising under this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be delivered or transmitted by facsimile to the recipient at the address for it stated at the commencement of this document, or at any substitute address which may be notified from time to time.

ACMA form - R117	Page 1 of 2	December 2009

