
Competition Entry Form closes 25th July 2007Please complete the following Entry form, sign the Terms and Conditions, complete the Checklist and submit all components of your entry to:
Pluck Your Brains Out Film Competition  
PO Box 1178, Newport Beach NSW 2106  AustraliaFilm Title Date Film Completed Month YearRunning Time MinutesSecondsState where film was made Producer (all correspondence will be with the Producer)DirectorOthers (such as Director Of Photography, Editor, Cast)



Synopsis
(Must not exceed 25 words. PYBO Competition reserves the right to edit the synopsis for the printed program).  Please note that if your film is selected, you may be required to provide a further more detailed synopsis.)








Group Entry nameIf an educational institution, please name Has this film been screened or broadcast publicly in Australia 
(or will it be screened in the near future?) Yes / NoPRINCIPAL CONTACT DETAILS
This person will be the main contact for the duration of the competition.  All correspondence will be sent to the land or email address noted below.  It is the entrant's responsibility to notify the Competition if any of these details change.First Name Last NameAddressSuburbPostcodeStatePhone (Landline)Mobile PhoneEmail address School/ Educational Institution NameSchool / Educational Institution SuburbContact Teacher nameAge Group (Producer age at time of Entry Date10 - 14 years    ?14 -18 years      ?18 -25 years      ?** Upon entry you will receive a free PYBO T-Shirt, whilst stocks last. Size cannot be guaranteed.  If you wish to order additional T-Shirts, complete the following:T-Shirt (Circle)XLLMSXSAdditional T-ShirtsXLLMSXSQuantity$44 each additional T-Shirt$$$$$Total$
Terms & Conditions of entry
As the producer of the film (or as parent of a Producer who is under 18 years of age) you (Producer) must understand and agree to the Terms & Conditions of entry outlined below.

1. 
1. Binding Agreement & Acceptance of Conditions          By completing this Entry Form and mailing it with the Producer's film (Film) to Pluck Your Brains Out at PO Box 1178 Newport Beach  2106  NSW (PYBO) by no later than 6pm on 25th July 2007 (Entry Date) to be postmarked no later than 24th July 2007 (Mailing Date) and received by PYBO no later than 27th July 2007 (Receiving Date) the Producer has applied to enter the Film in the Pluck Your Brains Out Film Competition and related competitions and accepts that the conditions contained in this Entry Form to create a binding agreement between PYBO and the Producer.
2. Indemnity  The Producer acknowledges that PYBO, its organisers, officers, volunteers and sponsors bear no responsibility for any risks which the Producer or any other person undertakes associated with participation in the 2007 PYBO Competition and indemnifies PYBO, its organisers, officers, volunteers and sponsors against all claims, demands, actions and liabilities of any kind, including lost, stolen or damaged property arising from yourself, your child or ward participating.
3. Selection of Films  PYBO, in its absolute discretion, and without giving reasons, may select the Film viewing and or judging at a PYBO event (Selected).  Any prizes awarded are not transferable, replaceable or redeemable. 
4. Notification of non-selection  If the Film is not Selected for the Competition, PYBO will, on or before 8th August  (Notification Date), notify the Producer of the Film's non-selection.
5. Producer Guarantees & Indemnities The Producer makes the following guarantees to PYBO:
(a) the Film complies with the "Entry Criteria" contained on this Entry Form;
(b) the rights (including the intellectual property rights) in the Film have not been, and will not be prior to the Competition, assigned or licensed to any party other than PYBO;
(c) the Producer is entitled to reproduce and exploit all of the underlying works in the Film by including these in the Film*;
(d) without limiting clause 5(c), the Producer is the owner, or has permission from the owner, of the copyright in the sound recordings comprising the soundtrack to the Film and the music and lyrics reproduced in those sound recordings*;
(e) all the performers in the Film have consented in writing to the use of their performances in the Film*;
(f) the Producer has obtained from each contributor to the Film including the performers (Contributor) a written consent to their work being edited, altered and/or reproduced, in any manner or context, by the Producer, and any person authorised by the Producer to do so (including PYBO), and such consents have been obtained to the full extent permitted under the Copyright Act, 1968 (Moral Rights Consents)*;
(g) the Producer has obtained from each Contributor to the Film authorisation for PYBO the Contributor's name and likeness in connection with any publicity for the Competition and related competitions, and an undertaking that the contributor will perform publicity appearances for the Competition and related competitions if reasonably requested by the Producer or PYBO*;
(h) the Producer is entitled to grant to PYBO permission to make use of each and every right referred to in clause 5 and the use or exploitation of the Film as contemplated by the conditions contained in this Entry Form will not violate the rights (including copyright) of any third party;
(i) the Producer will pay all fees and other charges related to entry of the Film in the Competition; and
(j) all details in this Entry Form are true and correct,
and the Producer indemnifies PYBO against any and all claims and demands made against PYBO in relation to the guarantees provided by the Producer in this clause 4 of this Entry Form.
*Copies of a release form for the purposes of complying with clause 5(c), (d), (e), (f) and (g) above can be obtained from the PYBO website http://www.pluckyourbrainsout.com.au .
6. Exclusive Licence  Subject to clauses 7 and 8, in consideration of PYBO reviewing the Film for the purpose of the Film being Selected for the Competition, the Producer grants an exclusive licence throughout the world in perpetuity to PYBO (whether or not the Film is Selected for the Competition) to do any and all of the acts now or subsequently comprising the copyright in the Film, including:
(a) all such acts in connection with any film Competition conducted or participated in by PYBO;
(b) to include or embody the Film or any part of the Film in another film produced by PYBO (or an assignee or licensee of PYBO) and in respect of which PYBO (or its assignee or licensee) will own or be the licensee of any or all rights, being:
(i) a collection or compilation of films seen in public at any film Competition conducted or participated in by PYBO; or
(ii) a film comprising films, or parts of films, seen in public at any such film Competition;
(c) to communicate the Film to the public by any media now existing or subsequently devised and by any means (including the Internet, commercial television, cable, satellite); and
(d) without limiting the generality of clause 6(c) above, to communicate the Film to the public by any means at, from or otherwise in connection with any film Competition conducted by or participated in by PYBO.
7. Termination of Exclusive Licence for non-selected films  Notwithstanding clause 6, if, on or before the Notification Date (as defined in clause 4), PYBO notifies the Producer that the Film is not Selected for the Competition, the exclusive licence granted by the Producer to PYBO under clause 6 will, on and from the Notification Date, automatically terminate and all rights granted to PYBO by the producer will automatically revert to the Producer, and neither PYBO (nor any assignee or licensee of PYBO) will have any rights, including copyright, in the Film.
8. Requests to terminate Exclusive Licence for Selected Films  A Producer of a Film which is Selected may write to PYBO after 12th November 2007 to request the termination of the exclusive licence granted to PYBO under clause 6.  If PYBO reasonably considers, having regard to any arrangements or agreements that it has or may have with other parties in relation to the Film, that it no longer requires the exclusive licence granted under clause 6, it will terminate the exclusive licence and notify the Producer in writing, after which time neither PYBO nor any assignee or licensee of PYBO will have exclusive rights, including copyright, in the Film.  
9. Requests for permission to enter Selected Films in other film competitions / festivals  A Producer of a Film which is Selected may also write to PYBO after [#date#] requesting PYBO's written permission to enter the Film in another film festival, but only for the purpose of the Film being viewed on other film Competition nights and not for any other purpose.  PYBO will grant permission provided that, having regard to any arrangements or agreements that PYBO has or may have with other parties in relation to the Film, it is able to grant that permission.
10. Automatic termination of Exclusive Licence for Selected Films.  One year after the Screening Date, the Exclusive Licence will lapse into a non-exclusive licence over selected films.
11. No other rights in the Film may be granted to any other person prior to the Competition  Notwithstanding anything contained in this Entry Form, the Producer must not grant any rights in the Film to any person:
(a) prior to the Competition; or
(b) where the grant of such rights would put PYBO in breach of any agreement or arrangement made known to the Producer by PYBO or of which the Producer out to be aware.
12. Authority to edit, alter or reproduce the Film
(a) The Producer acknowledges that some PYBO assignees or licensees may need to edit, alter or reproduce the Film and the Producer consents to these actions by PYBO or any assignees or licensees of PYBO, in any manner or context, in perpetuity throughout the world.  Such consent is given to the full extent permitted under the Copyright Act, 1968.
(b) The Producer authorises PYBO to do any and all acts comprised in the Moral Rights Consents.
13. Authority to use the Producer's name and likeness  The Producer authorises PYBO to use the Producer's name and likeness in connection with any publicity for the Competition and related competitions, and the Producer agrees to undertake publicity appearances for the Competition and related competitions as reasonably requested by PYBO.
14. General Terms  The agreement created by this Entry Form is made in New South Wales and is governed by the jurisdiction of the courts of New South Wales.  The Producer will do such acts and sign, or cause to be signed, such instruments as PYBO may reasonably request for the purposes of this agreement.  PYBO may assign or license its interest under this agreement.  The Producer must not assign or license its interest under this agreement.  Where any party comprises more than one person, a reference to that party includes each such person severally and all such persons jointly.  A reference to a person includes a body corporate.  The singular includes the plural and vice versa.  Includes and including are not words of limitation.  The words and expressions used in this agreement have the meanings given to them in the Copyright Act, 1968 unless expressly stated to the contrary in this agreement.  A reference to a "film" is a reference to a "cinematograph film".  In the case of any inconsistency between the provisions of this Entry Form and any other language contained in this document, the provisions of this Entry Form prevail.



Competition ChecklistPlease answer the following questions and sign below as part of the conditions of entry:
YesNoAuthority from contributors??I have obtained written authorisation from every person who has contributed images, sound or performance to my Film for the use and reproduction of that image, sound or performance.YesNoCopyright for soundtrack??I am the owner of the copyright in the sound recordings comprising the soundtrack to the film OR I have authorisation or licence from the owner of the copyright in the sound recordings comprising the soundtrack to the film.YesNoGranting of licence to PYBO??I agree to grant a non-exclusive licence in perpetuity to PYBO for:
- my Film to be included in any compilation which may be produced by PYBO;
- my Film to be uploaded (if invited) onto the PYBO website;
- my Film and my Stills to be used by PYBO in part or in whole in any screenings or promotional events in cinemas, television, radio or internetYesNoStills??I have provided 2 production stills of my Film (my Stills) with my entry and agree to grant PYBO a non-exclusive licence in perpetuity to use and reproduce my Stills on any promotional, compilation or website material which may be produced by PYBO.YesNoReturn of my Film - stamped self-addressed envelope??I acknowledge that PYBO will not pay postage or courier charges for the return of my Film to me and that if I have not included a stamped self-addressed envelope, PYBO may dispose of my Film.  YesNoIndemnify PYBO ??I acknowledge that PYBO, and its organisers, officers, volunteers and sponsors bears no responsibility for any risks which I undertake associated with participation in the 2007 PYBO Competition and indemnify each of them against all claims, demands, actions and liabilities of any kind, including lost, stolen or damaged property arising from my participation.   YesNoEntry form??I have completed and enclosed the Entry FormYesNoEntry fee ??I have enclosed $44 for my entry to the PYBO film competition made out to Pluck Your Brains OutIF THE PRODUCER IS OVER 18
I, the Producer, have read and understand and agree to the terms and conditions of entry as outlined above and agree to abide by them.OR, IF THE PRODUCER IS UNDER 18:
I, the parent or guardian of the Producer have read and understand and agree to the terms and conditions of entry as outlined above and agree to abide by them, and acknowledge that I am responsible for all risks involved in my child's participation in the PYBO competition. 
I hereby give my consent for my child (as specified above) to participate in the 2007 PYBO Competition.  I acknowledge that PYBO, its organisers, officers, volunteers and sponsors bear no responsibility for any risks which my child undertakes associated with participation in the 2007 PYBO Competition and indemnify each of them against all claims, demands, actions and liabilities of any kind, including lost, stolen or damaged property arising from my child participating.   Name of Film submitted:	
	
Producer/s Name:	
	
Producer/s Signature:	
	
Signed on 	day of 	200...Name of Film submitted:	
	
Child's Name ("my child"):	
	
Parent / Guardian's ("Producer's") Signature:	
			
Signed on 	day of................... 	200..........




Pluck your Brains Out Short Film Competition 

Page 1



{HSR/SJN1944:1}




Pluck your Brains Out Short Film Competition


Page 5

Pluck your Brains Out 
Short Film Competition

Page 5

Pluck your Brains Out Short Film Competition


