

Enterprise Agreement 2006
Certified 21 April 2006
VICTORIAN COUNCIL
OF SOCIAL SERVICE
ENTERPRISE AGREEMENT 2006

1 Title 
This Agreement made pursuant to Part VIB, Section 170LJ of the Workplace Relations Act, 1996 shall be known as the Victorian Council of Social Service Enterprise Agreement 2006. 

2 Index 
1	Title	2
2	Index	2
3	Scope and Application	4
4	Date of Operation	4
5	Relationship to Parent Award/Collective Bargaining	5
5.1	Relationship to SACS Award	5
5.2	Collective Bargaining	5
5.3	New employees to be covered by Agreement	5
6	Implementation of Agreement	5
6.1	Joint Consultative Committee	5
6.2	Security of Employment	6
6.3	Leave Reserved	6
7	Status of Employment	6
7.1	Full-time employment	6
7.2	Part-time employment	6
7.3	Casual employment	7
7.4	Fixed term employment:	7
7.5	Replacement employees	8
7.6	Consultants and contractors	8
7.7	Job Sharing	8
7.8	Secondment	9
7.9	Changes to the status of employment	9
7.10	Continuity of Service	10
8	Jury service	10

9	Recruitment	10
9.1	Internal Staff	10
9.2	Recruitment Procedure	10
9.3	Short-term vacancy (3 months or less)	11
9.4	Position Descriptions	11
9.5	Interview Process	11
10	Salary	12
10.1	Salary Structure	12
10.2	Salary Increases	17
10.3	Higher Duties Payment	18
10.4	Occupational Superannuation	18
11	Expenses and Allowances	18
11.1	Petty Cash Reimbursements	18
11.2	Travel Reimbursements	18
11.3	Meal Allowances	19
11.4	Transport	19
11.5	Accommodation	20
12	Hours of Work	20
12.1	Part Time Hours	20
12.2	Spread of Hours	20
12.3	Work Breaks	20
12.4	Time Sheets	21
12.5	Work and Family Responsibilities	21
12.6	Time in Lieu - Overtime	21
12.7	Flexi-Time	22
12.8	Working at Home	22
13	Leave	23
13.1	Annual Leave	23
13.2	Sick Leave	23
13.3	Bereavement / Compassionate Leave	24
13.4	Exceptional Circumstances Leave	24
13.5	Personal and Family Leave	24
13.6	Long Service Leave	25
13.7	Study Leave	26
13.8	Leave Without Pay	26
13.9	Parental Leave	26
14	Public Holidays	28
15	Harassment, Occupational Health and Safety, and Workplace Injury	28
15.1	Harassment	28
15.2	Occupational Health and Safety	29
15.3	Workplace Injury	30
16	Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action	30
17	Conflict Resolution	30
17.1	Dispute Resolution and Grievance Procedure	30
17.2	Disciplinary Procedure	32
18	Training and Development	33
19	Industrial Relations	33
19.1	Right of Entry	34
19.2	Workplace Representative Training	34
20	Change of Employment Status	34
20.1	Resignation	34
20.2	Dismissal	34
20.3	Redundancy	35
20.4	Outgoing employees	36
21	Acceptance of Agreement	36
22	Appendix 1 - Salary Structure	37

3 Scope and Application 
This Agreement shall be binding upon VCOSS and the Australian Municipal, Administrative, Clerical and Services Union (ASU) in respect of all persons who are eligible to join the ASU (whether members or not). 
All employees excluding the Chief Executive Officer, including staff employed in projects auspiced by VCOSS, shall be employed in accordance with the Conditions of Employment as stated in this agreement. 

4 Date of Operation 
This Agreement shall operate from the 1 July 2006 and shall operate until 30 June 2009. 


5 Relationship to Parent Award/Collective Bargaining 
5.1 Relationship to SACS Award
It is a term of this certified agreement that all the terms and conditions of the Social and Community Services - Victoria - Award 2000 (SACS Award) as at the date of certification of this agreement shall continue to apply to all employees eligible to be members of the union. A copy of the SACS Award can be accessed at http://www.airc.gov.au/awdsimp/lists/lists.html and is available from VCOSS JCC representatives.

In the event of any inconsistency between the incorporated award terms and the other terms of this agreement, the agreement prevails to the extent of the inconsistency, so far as the terms exceed the minimum entitlement set by the Award. In the event that a term in this agreement fails to meet the basic Award entitlement, the Award entitlement will prevail. 
5.2 Collective Bargaining
The employer is committed during the life of this agreement, and in its renegotiation, to negotiate collectively in respect of all its employees and their nominated representatives for the purposes of making a new agreement. In the Federal jurisdiction, this means negotiating an agreement under s170LJ of the Workplace Relations Act 1996.
The employer agrees that individual employee agreements including Australian Workplace Agreements made pursuant to the Workplace Relations Act 1996 will not be promoted, offered or made with any employee while this certified agreement remains in force. 
5.3 New employees to be covered by Agreement
An employee commencing his or her employment with the employer after the date on which this agreement comes into operation shall be employed in accordance with the terms of this agreement. Further, the parties agree that no employee shall be employed other than under the terms of this agreement. 
The terms and conditions of the agreement shall be incorporated into the contract of employment of employees bound by this agreement. 


6 Implementation of Agreement 
The parties recognise the importance of establishing mechanisms to ensure that the measures envisaged in the Agreement are reflected in practice; 
6.1 Joint Consultative Committee 
A Joint Consultative Committee will oversee the implementation of the Agreement. This committee is committed to co-operatively and positively increase the efficiency and productivity of the organisation and to enhance the training, career opportunities and job security of employees within the organisation. 
The Joint Consultative Committee will: 
* Oversee the implementation of the Certified Agreement 
* Plan and co-ordinate local workplace reform activity and ensure its progress 
* Operate effectively and co-operatively and meet at least at three monthly intervals. 
* Be a forum for effective communication between management and employees 
* Conduct on-going reviews of all aspects of workplace reform, including OH&S 
* Committee representatives shall be allowed reasonable time to prepare and participate in the workings of the Committee and shall be adequately trained through an agreed process to perform their role in paid work time. 
* The Committee shall consist of:
 the Chief Executive Officer,
 a staff member elected by the staff body, and 
 a union representative elected by ASU members of staff.
Changes to the representatives serving on the Joint Consultative Committee will be subject to consultation with and agreement from the staff body. Elected positions are subject to re-election every 12 months.
6.2 Security of Employment 
The parties to this agreement shall take steps to ensure that VCOSS has a stable, committed and secure workforce. 
This shall be undertaken in the following ways: 
* Exploring methods to increase the security of the employees' employment; 
* Increasing investment in the productive capacity of the organisation; 
* Giving preference to the internal workforces in any competitive tendering/ contracting out process; 
* Establishing agreed fixed minimum hours of employment for permanent part-time or casual employees. 
6.3 Leave Reserved 
Leave is reserved to the parties to this agreement to discuss and introduce further agreed changes within the organisation that will enhance the efficiency and effectiveness of the organisation or enhance the conditions of employment of employees. 
Where agreement has been reached between the parties the agreed arrangements will form a supplementary agreement which shall be certified in the Australian Industrial Relations Commission under the provisions of Section 170MD of the Workplace Relations Act 1996. 

7 Status of Employment 
At the time of engagement, the employer will provide the employee with written advice of the terms of their employment, specifying whether they are full time, part time or casual and the duration of the contract where applicable. The letter of offer should also outline the employee's classification and rate of pay and any other information relevant to the employment agreement. 
7.1 Full-time employment
A full-time employee shall mean an employee who is engaged to work 37.5 hours of ordinary time per week in accordance with the provisions of clause 12. Hours of Work. An employee employed on a full-time basis will be entitled to the full benefits of this agreement. 
7.2 Part-time employment 
7.2.1 A part-time employee shall mean an employee who is engaged to work regular ordinary hours of less than 37.5 per week. Employees working on a part-time basis are entitled to the benefits of this agreement on a pro rata basis. 
7.2.2 The minimum hours of duty for a part-time employee shall be three hours for each shift. 
7.2.3 For the purposes of this definition, any hours worked by an employee to replace temporarily another employee absent from duty that are in addition to those for which the employee is normally rostered, shall not affect the original contract of employment. 
7.2.4 A part-time employee shall work regular hours and days in accordance with the conditions laid down in this agreement. 
7.2.5 For ordinary working hours, a part-time employee shall be paid the hourly rate as defined by the position description and in accordance with clause 10. Salary.
7.2.6 Employees working in a full-time capacity have the option to negotiate the change to a part-time position. Acknowledging that the organisation's operational needs will be taken into account, such requests shall not be unreasonably refused. 
7.2.7 If a part-time staff member is to undertake another project within VCOSS, they shall have their employment extended (e.g. from 2 days per week to 4 days per week) under the same employment agreement. Rates of pay for each project will be determined in accordance with clause 10 of this agreement. Other staff members affected by such an arrangement should be consulted with during the appointment process.
7.3 Casual employment
7.3.1 A casual employee shall mean an employee who is engaged for work of an intermittent and casual nature and shall not include persons employed on a fixed term contract pursuant to this agreement. 
7.3.2 An employee specifically engaged on a casual basis shall be engaged for a minimum period of three hours each shift. 
7.3.3 Subject to subclause 7.3.4, a casual employee shall be employed for an average of fifteen hours or less per week. 
7.3.4 A person employed on a casual basis to work part-time or full-time as defined in this agreement, shall not be engaged for any period exceeding thirteen weeks. 
7.3.5 Where a person is employed pursuant to subclause 7.3.4, where that person is reemployed by VCOSS within four weeks of the termination of the previous work period, for the purposes of this agreement, the period between engagements shall be deemed leave without pay and not a new contract of employment. 

7.3.6 A casual employee shall be informed in writing upon engagement that: 
* they are hired by the hour 
* they will be paid for actual time worked 
* they are not entitled to payment for public holidays not worked nor payment for paid leave of any type other than Long Service Leave 
7.3.7 A casual employee shall be paid the hourly rate as defined plus a loading of 25% for ordinary working hours.

7.4 Fixed term employment: 
7.4.1 A fixed term employee may be engaged to work on either a full-time or part-time basis: 
* in a position which is temporary in nature for a specified period of time; or 
* for the completion of a specified task[s] or project; or 
* to relieve in a vacant position arising from an employee taking leave in accordance with this agreement. 
All Fixed Term employees who are engaged for a period of more than 52 weeks, are deemed to be permanent employees for the purposes of determining continuity of service, relevant accrued entitlements and redundancy provisions.
7.4.2 At the time of engagement the employer shall advise the employee in writing that:
 the employment is of a temporary nature, 
 the actual or expected duration of employment, 
 employment beyond the period is not expected. 
7.4.3 A fixed term employee shall not be employed to fill a position previously held by a permanent employee. 
7.4.4 This agreement shall apply to the fixed term employee except to the extent that the agreement expressly provides that it does not apply. 
7.4.5 If a fixed term employee is subsequently appointed to a permanent position with the employer, any period of the fixed term contract completed immediately prior to the commencement of the permanent position shall be recognised as service with the employer for the purpose of calculating leave entitlements, pursuant to clause 7.10, provided that the employee has not taken or received a redundancy payment. 
7.5 Replacement employees 
7.5.1 A replacement employee means an employee engaged for a specific period of time or temporarily promoted or transferred to fill a vacancy arising due to the extended leave of a permanent employee. 
7.5.2 A replacement employee shall be engaged in accordance with clause 7.4 of this agreement.
7.6  Consultants and contractors
7.6.1 VCOSS aims to provide secure part-time and full-time employment and to minimise reliance on consultants and contractors. Consultants or contractors will be engaged only in cases where specialist and or technical expertise or equipment is required and where the task is something not ordinarily to be done by staff employed under the EBA.
7.6.2 VCOSS will not enter into any separate employment contracts with staff members outside of this agreement (excluding Chief Executive Officer). This includes part time staff (i.e. staff who work less than 5 days or 37.5 hours per week). That is, VCOSS cannot have two separate employment agreements with one staff member (as an employee and as a contractor or with a company owned by an employee). 
7.7 Job Sharing 
In recognition of the changing nature of work in our sector VCOSS has developed a policy position, which outlines the conditions under which job sharing can be undertaken. 
7.7.1  VCOSS positions to be occupied by staff employed on a job share basis should be negotiated with the line manager and Chief Executive Officer and any other Unit staff whose work may be affected by a job share situation. The specific tasks, responsibilities and accountability pertaining to the position should be clarified and agreed to with line manager and Chief Executive Officer. Included should be a time allocation where staff are to meet and ensure that the overall continuity of the position is not compromised. 
Job share employees also have a responsibility to ensure that a high level of continuity exists between the two positions (for example, working on the same day at least two hours per week to allow handover of tasks). 
7.7.2 If either employee in a job share position resigns or is dismissed their position will be offered to the incumbent in the first instance. If this offer is not taken up the position shall be filled following the VCOSS policy for appointment of staff (refer to clause 9 of this agreement).
7.8 Secondment 
7.8.1 The need for a secondment applies when expertise is not available within the organisation or when the gaining of experience or sharing of expertise is sought within VCOSS for employees outside the sector. An exception is when secondment occurs within VCOSS. Procedure for secondment of staff from outside the organisation will be as per the short-term vacancy policy, however a secondment position does not need to be internally advertised. A decision to 'second' should be made by the Chief Executive Officer and the policy should follow as per Short Term Vacancy (3 months or less), with an interview panel recommending appointment (refer to clause 9.5 Interview Process). Decisions regarding time frame should take into consideration funding and project realities. 
7.8.2 A request for 'secondment' to another position outside the organisation should be made to the line manager and/or Chief Executive Officer in the first instance. After discussion and consultation with all concerned parties (eg. other Unit staff) a decision will be made by the Chief Executive Officer. The final decision will take into consideration the burden to VCOSS of 'filling' the vacated position, the time frame in question, staff development potential and the importance of sharing expertise across the sector. As in other similar 'leave' applications, a staff member on secondment will have their position held open for them during their absence, subject to funding. The decision to replace the staff member on leave of secondment is at the discretion of the Unit/ Project, taking into consideration the workload of the Unit and any other concurrent staff absences. 

7.9 Changes to the status of employment
An employee's status of employment can be altered at any time, so long as the following conditions are met:
* both parties are in agreement with regards to the proposed changes
* the proposed changes do not breach any of the terms contained within this agreement
* operational requirements have been taken into account and both parties are satisfied that the proposed changes do not adversely affect other employees or the organisation.
7.9.1 Redeployment
Where existing VCOSS employees face the prospect of retrenchment from their positions the Chief Executive Officer will explore the possibilities of redeploying them to vacant positions that have arisen or are expected to arise in the organisation, (except for the Chief Executive Officer). VCOSS will make every endeavour to provide opportunities for the retraining of staff for the purposes of redeployment. 
A panel reflecting the criteria in clause 9.5.1, will use the key selection criteria within the position description to make a decision on whether the staff member has the skills to fulfil the tasks required of the new position. If the panel is not satisfied that an internal applicant can fill a vacancy, then options for retraining will be considered and implemented by mutual agreement between panel and staff member. 
If the number of retrenched employees is greater than the number of vacant positions within VCOSS, an interview process based on merit will form the basis of selection. A position description will be made available to all applicants prior to interview. 
7.10 Continuity of Service
For the purposes of calculating an employee's entitlements under this Agreement, continuity of service is not broken if:
* VCOSS continues to employ, or re-employs within 6 months, an employee who has completed a fixed term contract;
* by an absence on unpaid leave approved by the employer;
* an employee has been seconded to another employer.
The period of the break in service does not count toward the accrual of entitlements. Continuity of service is broken where a redundancy is paid.
8 Jury service
8.1 A full time, part time or fixed term employee required to attend for jury service during their ordinary working hours shall be reimbursed by the employer an amount equal to the difference between the amount paid in respect of their attendance for such jury service and the amount of wages thy would have received in respect of the ordinary time they would have worked had they not been on jury service.
8.2 An employee shall notify the employer as soon as possible of the date upon which they are required to attend for jury service. Further the employee shall give their employer documentary proof of their attendance, the duration of such attendance and the amount received in respect of such jury service.

9 Recruitment 
9.1 Internal Staff
An internal staff member is defined, for purposes of this agreement, as:
* an employee, as defined by clause 7 of this agreement, that is currently employed by VCOSS;
* an employee, as defined by clause 7 of this agreement, that has been employed by VCOSS within the previous six month period;
* a volunteer or student intern currently working at VCOSS;
* a volunteer or student intern that has worked at VCOSS within the last six months.
9.2 Recruitment Procedure 
VCOSS has a commitment to the ongoing employment of its employees. Any new appointment (excluding Chief Executive Officer) will be advertised internally first. All advertisements for vacant positions will be emailed to all internal staff. With the exception of a short-term vacancy (refer to clause 9.3), if an internal selection procedure is not successful, vacancies will then be advertised externally, at the very least through Noticeboard, and/or a statewide or national daily newspaper. 
All proposed new appointments must be approved by the Chief Executive Officer. Prior to advertising the position, a position description must be finalised in accordance with clause 9.4 Position Descriptions of this agreement. Position descriptions must be made available to all applicants.
All new appointments will be required to undergo the interview process in accordance with clause 9.5 Interview Process.
9.3 Short-term vacancy (3 months or less) 
a) Short term vacancies of three months or less will be advertised internally. If internal advertising is unsuccessful, suitably qualified people can be invited to apply. Notwithstanding, internal staff will not be precluded from applying for any position that becomes available within VCOSS. 
b) The above will not preclude existing VCOSS staff from filling a position in VCOSS in an acting capacity, due to the short-term absence of another staff member, (e.g. sick leave, annual leave, maternity leave, long-service leave) or until an appointment is made in the event of a resignation. In this instance the staff member filling the position will return to the position they held prior to the appointment. However a staff member cannot be appointed to a position that extends their employment to more than 37.5 hours per week. 
c) The appointment of a person in an acting capacity to fill a short-term vacancy will be at the discretion of the Chief Executive Officer after consultation with the Joint Consultative Committee. 
9.4 Position Descriptions 
VCOSS will provide a Position Description for all positions within the organisation. These will be made available to all employees. Position descriptions will be reviewed annually as part of the Performance Appraisal process, in order to ensure that the position description reflects the current duties of the role. The position description shall not be altered by the employer except with the written consent of the employee. 
Position descriptions may be reviewed and altered prior to the appointment of a new employee to a vacant position, in consultation with the Joint Consultative Committee. Position descriptions will be made available to all applicants responding to the advertising of a vacancy.
9.5 Interview Process
9.5.1 Interview Panels
All appointments to a new position, will require an interview. Interview panels for all positions (excluding CEO position) will consist of: 
* CEO and/or line manager/ Project Co-ordinator of proposed position (Panel Co-ordinator) 
* one member of the Joint Consultative Committee 
* one non-management member of the Unit or Project &/or one independent person with expertise in the field 
Each of the above members may choose to delegate their authority to a coopted person who has specific expertise in the position being interviewed for. Interview panels will not exceed four members. A gender balance is required in every interview situation where practicable. 
9.5.2 Selection Procedure
The interview panel will determine a short list from the applicant list. All unsuccessful applicants will be notified in writing as soon as possible.
Following the interviews, the co-ordinator of interview panel (as per clause 9.5.1) is to contact the referees of panel's recommended candidate, after consultation with CEO. The Chief Executive Officer will endorse appointment with advice from interview panel and upon successful referee (and police check as appropriate) check. 
The interview panel will notify unsuccessful interviewees within one week of interview.

10 Salary 
10.1 Salary Structure 
VCOSS recognises that the SACS Award classifications, which are primarily based on the needs of a community service delivery organisations, do not reflect the scope and responsibilities of the various roles performed within the organisation to provide policy development, research and membership support. In order to provide more relevant classifications and remuneration for VCOSS employees, VCOSS has developed a classification structure that incorporates the diverse range of skills and responsibilities required to perform the policy, project and administration roles within the organisation.
10.1.1 Classifications of Employment


Level 1
Characteristics Of The Level
A Level 1 employee works under close direction to undertake clearly defined routine activities that require the practical application of basic skills and techniques. General features of work at this level consist of performing clearly defined activities with outcomes being readily attainable. Employees' duties at this level will be closely monitored with instruction and assistance being readily available.
Positions at this level may involve employees in extensive on-the- job training including familiarisation with the goals and objectives of the workplace.
Responsibilities
A position at this level may undertake the following responsibilities or others of similar value:
a. Undertake clearly defined routine activities of a clerical and/or support nature;
b. Undertake straightforward operation of keyboard equipment including data input and word processing at a basic level;
c. Provide routine information including general reception and telephonist duties on a temporary basis under direct supervision;
d. Apply established practices and procedures;
e. Undertake routine office duties such as filing, photocopying, checking and batching of accounts invoices orders and stores requisitions, photocopying, mail-outs, simple processing of correspondence and maintenance of an existing records system.
Skills, Knowledge And Experience
Basic knowledge of administrative practices and procedures relevant to an office environment. A developing knowledge of work practices and policies of the relevant work area. Sound numeracy, written and verbal communication skills. Good skills in most office based computer applications and office equipment.
Organisational And Human Relationships 
Works under direct supervision and work outcomes are regularly monitored. Solutions to problems found in established procedures with assistance readily available. Tasks and activities completed according to instructions and established procedures
Typical Positions
Administrative Assistant; Trainee

Level 2
Characteristics Of The Level
A person employed at this level shall work under general direction within clearly defined guidelines and undertake a range of activities requiring the application of acquired skills and knowledge. The functions performed are defined by established routines, methods, standards and procedures. There is scope to exercise initiative in applying work practices and procedures but assistance will be readily available where required. Employees may be responsible for a minor function and/or support the work of more senior employees.
Employees will be responsible for managing time, planning and organising their own work and will generally have at least two years experience in a relevant discipline or occupation.
Responsibilities
A position at this level may undertake the following responsibilities or others of similar value:
a. Undertake a range of activities requiring the application of established work procedures within clearly established procedures and/or guidelines such as office administration, payroll and financial services, information services, and project support.
b. Respond to enquiries that require independent judgement, including undertaking reception duties and advice and information to the general public on VCOSS services;
c. Provide administrative support to policy and project work areas;
d. Maintain office administrative systems, membership databases and stationary and supplies;
e. Undertake word processing and other computer based tasks;
f. Perform a range of minor financial tasks such as maintaining petty cash and daily banking deposits, prepare invoices and issue receipts;
Skills, Knowledge, And Experience
Sound knowledge of administrative practices and procedures relevant to an office environment. A good knowledge of work practices and policies of the relevant work area. Strong numeracy, written and verbal communication skills. Good skills in most office based computer applications and office equipment. Good problem solving and organization skills. At least two years experience in a relevant discipline, function or work area.
Organisational And Human Relationships
Works under general direction of more senior employee. Work outcomes are monitored and procedures are generally well defined. However, there is some freedom to exercise initiative in the methods applied to achieve work objectives. Assistance will be available when problems occur.
Typical Positions
Resource Officer; Administrative Officer; Assistant Policy & Project Officer, Accounts & Payroll Officer, Membership Officer.

Level 3
Characteristics Of The Level
A person employed at this level shall work under general direction in functions that require the application of skills, knowledge and experience of a more complex or specialist nature. Generally, employees at this level will be responsible the performance of a project, policy development, campaign or a more complex administrative/executive support role. Work objectives and procedures will be clearly defined but the employee will be expected to take responsibility for the quality of their own work and the achievement of work objectives. Work at this level requires a sound knowledge of program, activity, operational policy or service aspects of the work performed within a function or a number of work areas.
Responsibilities 
A position at this level may undertake the following responsibilities or others of similar value:
a. Under the direction of a more senior employee undertake responsibility for the development and/or implementation of a project, policy matter or campaign;
b. Provide administrative/secretarial support of a complex nature to senior employees and/or committees of management;
c. Deliver a specialist service or function supporting the work of the organization;
d. Provide assistance to a more senior employee in planning, co-ordinating, implementing and administering a work area or function;
e. Apply computer programming knowledge and skills in systems development, network maintenance and implementation;
f. Provide expert advice within the specific area of responsibility, to other employees, volunteers and the general public;
g. Where the prime responsibility lies in a specialised field, employees at this level would undertake at least some of the following:
h. Under general direction undertake a variety of tasks of a specialised and/or detailed nature;
i. Exercise specialised judgement within prescribed areas;
ii. Carry out planning, studies or research for particular projects including aspects of design, formulation of policy, implementation of procedures and presentation;
iii. Provide reports on progress of program activities including recommendations.
Skills, Knowledge, And Experience
Detailed knowledge in a relevant discipline gained through previous experience, training or education. Well developed analytical and organisational skills. Sound knowledge of government regulation and policy development. Demonstrated experience in a relevant policy, campaign or project area. Specialists require a comprehensive understanding of the particular discipline, experience and capacity to apply the skills to support the activities and functions of the organization. Strong communication skills and a high level of interpersonal skills in dealing with the public, government and other organizations.
Organisational And Human Relationships
Works under general direction of more senior employees but expected to exercise judgement and initiative where procedures are not clearly defined and to achieve work objectives. Will generally take responsibility for keeping senior employees informed of progress of work and may provide expert advice internally and externally within their area of expertise or work function.
Typical Positions
Project & Policy Officer, Publications & Media Officer, Clerical/Administrative senior (supervising other clerical/administrative staff where required), Executive Assistant,


LEVEL 4
Characteristics Of The Level
A person employed at this level shall, under limited direction from senior management, coordinate a discrete work area or a range of functions. 
Employees will set, within broad policy objectives, procedures and work practices for the discrete work area and may direct the work of other employees engaged in that area. The employee will be expected to provide a high level of expertise to the organization and may be required to represent the organization in lobbying activities and other relationships with Government, members and the general public. 
A substantially greater degree of knowledge and experience in the relevant discipline such as social policy, office management, finance and accounting or a related field, is required at this level. 
Responsibilities
A position at this level may undertake the following responsibilities or others of similar value:
a. Coordinate the activities of a discreet work area, significant projects and/or functions involving complex social policy analysis, research and the use of analytical skills;
b. Exercise control over the planning, direction and evaluation of operations which include providing analysis and interpretation for either a major single or multi specialist operation; provide advice on matters of complexity within the work area and/or specialised area;
c. Undertake a range of duties within the work area, including develop work practices and procedures; problem definition, planning and the exercise of judgement; provide advice on policy matters and contribute to their development;
d. Lobby and negotiate with Government and other relevant bodies on public policy issues and coordinate related activities to further VCOSS policies and objectives;
e. Provide a consultancy service for a range of activities and/or to a wide range of internal and external clients;
f. Undertake specific responsibility for promotional and developmental activities designed to raise funds for VCOSS and improve and extend its organisational profile, and contribute to the development of these activities;
g. Undertake specific responsibility for the maintenance of financial and administrative systems and contribute to their development;
h. Supervise the activities and work performance of employees engaged in the discrete work area.
Skills, Knowledge And Experience
Comprehensive knowledge of the relevant specialist discipline, gained through experience, education, or training. Detailed knowledge of program activities and work practices relevant to the work area as well as strong policy analysis and research skills. 
Strong communication and advocacy skills are required at this level and a high level of interpersonal skills in dealing with the public and other organizations. Ability to lead a team of workers and motivate and support them is expected as well.
Organisational And Human Relationships
An employee at this level works under limited direction from senior management and will exercise a high level of autonomy in the methods used to achieve program objectives. The employee will be accountable to the Program Manager and/or Chief Executive Officer for the performance of their work area. Supervision of the work of employees engaged in the discrete work area will also be the responsibility of the employee at this level.
Typical Positions
Policy & Project Coordinator.


Level 5
Characteristics of the level
Positions at this level may be identified by a high level of responsibility for organisational management and decision-making, the exercise of considerable independent judgement and delegated authority, and the provision of high-level expert advice.
General features of this level require employee's involvement in establishing policies and procedures which impact on activities undertaken and outcomes achieved by the organisation and/or activities undertaken by sections of the community served by the organisation.
Employees are involved in the formation/establishment of policy and the procedures and work practices within the organisation and will be required to provide assistance to other employees and/or sections.
Employees at this level are expected to undertake the control and coordination of key aspects of the work of the organisation. Employees require a strong understanding of the long-term goals of the organisation.
The management of staff is a feature at this level. Employees are required to set outcomes in relation to the organisation and may required to negotiate matters on behalf of the organisation.
Employees will have significant impact upon policies and projects and will be required to provide initiative and to formulate, implement, monitor and evaluate projects and work programs.
Responsibilities
A position at this level may undertake the following responsibilities or others of similar value:
a. Undertake managerial functions under a wide range of conditions to achieve results in line with organisational goals;
b. Exercise managerial control, involving planning, direction, control and evaluation of operations which include providing analysis and interpretation for either a major single discipline or multidiscipline operation;
c. Provide authoritative specialist advice on policy matters and contribute to the development and review of policies, both internal and external, including critical evaluation of government policy;
d. Administer complex policy, organisational and program matters;
e. Undertake lobbying and advocacy work involving networking and policy development and liaison at a high level; 
f. Contribute to and participate in the senior management team.
Skills, Knowledge And Experience
Comprehensive knowledge of policies and procedures. Application of a high level of discipline knowledge. A high level of verbal and written communication skills, including the capacity to discuss and explain complex issues and ideas. Strong managerial and strategic planning skills. Ability to exercise sound judgement in relation to complex issues. Strong policy analysis and research skills, where relevant. A high level of interpersonal skills in dealing with the public and other organizations.
Organisational and Human Relationships
The employee manages a major area or program and works under limited direction of the Chief Executive Officer. The employee exercises substantial delegated authority and will deputise for the Chief Executive Officer from time to time. He or she will be expected to exercise a high degree of autonomy; manages a program area or range of work areas and supervises staff at lower levels.
Typical Positions
Program or Function Managers including Deputy Director, Research Director, and Sector Development Manager.
10.1.2 Salary Levels
Refer to Appendix 1 - Salary Structure for salary levels.
10.1.3 Salary levels for new appointments
The salary level for a position is to be determined during the development of the position description, in accordance with clause 9.4 Position Descriptions and be reviewed prior to the interview process. The salary level, eg Level 2, for a position will be determined by the:
* requirements and responsibilities of the position, 
* skills and experience required to perform the duties outlined in the job description.
The increment within a salary level in which a new appointment will be placed, eg Level 2.2, will be determined by the level of skill and experience displayed by the successful candidate during the selection process. 
The rationale applied in determining a salary level for a position should be tabled at the next Joint Consultative Committee meeting and recorded in the minutes.
Employees have a right to ensure they are fairly remunerated and that they are placed on an appropriate classification level within this Agreement. If the successful applicant agrees with the proposed salary level, this will be confirmed in the letter of appointment. If the successful applicant requests that further discussion and negotiations take place, employees have a right to enlist the support and advice of their employee representative in these negotiations. Any dispute over the classification will mean enactment of the conflict resolution clause of this agreement.
10.2 Salary Increases 
10.2.1 Annual Indexation
The salary structure outlined in Appendix 1 will be indexed annually at a rate equivalent to the CPI, but not less than 2.5%, payable from the first of July each year. Parties agree that discussions will continue during the life of this agreement to negotiate an increased rate of indexation.
10.2.2 Annual Increments 
All employees will be entitled to an annual incremental increase within the salary level on which they are placed, until the maximum increment is reached. The incremental increase is payable on the anniversary of commencement of employment, in accordance with Award conditions.
10.2.3 Movement between salary levels
Movement between salary levels, eg from Level 2 to Level 3, will occur when the following conditions are met:
* An employee applies for and is promoted to a position that is placed on a higher level within the salary structure, in accordance with clause 9 of this agreement,
* A job description alters significantly enough that it fits the descriptors of a higher level. Changes to a position description must be in accordance with clause 9.4.

10.3 Higher Duties Payment 
Any member of staff who is called upon to perform the duties of another employee on a higher classification under the Agreement for a period of five consecutive working days or more shall receive higher duties allowance. The 'higher duties' salary must be at least equivalent to the base salary level for the position. 
10.4 Occupational Superannuation 
Occupational superannuation is payable to all staff to at least the rate of 9% as specified in the Superannuation Guarantee Legislation. 
The HESTA fund is the preferred fund for occupational superannuation, however staff may, subject to statutory requirements, request payments to be directed to any other fund, and such request shall not be unreasonably refused. 

11 Expenses and Allowances
11.1 Petty Cash Reimbursements
In recognition of the expenses incurred by staff for work related purposes/activities VCOSS will reimburse any reasonable expenses through petty cash. Expenses may include but are not limited to:
* travel;
* stationery;
* parking;
* staff amenities.
Where petty cash requirements are likely to exceed $20, prior approval from the line manager must be sought. Petty cash should only be used for purposes where an expense cannot be charged to a company account. Information on company accounts can be obtained from administration.
11.2 Travel Reimbursements 
Any staff member who is required to stay away overnight will have the option to choose either an allowance of $90, or to take 3.75 hours time-in-lieu (to be taken in accordance with TIL procedure). Staff are also entitled to a meal allowance for meals not provided, when work involves an overnight stay. Meals allowances will be paid in accordance with the current Taxation Ruling. Taxation Ruling 2003/7 provides the following rates:
Breakfast	$17.70
Lunch		$19.75
Dinner		$34.05

Accommodation will be paid by VCOSS. (see clause 11.5) 
11.2.1 Intrastate Travel
Where employees are required to travel within the state to regional areas for work purposes, the staff member may have the option to choose an overnight stay where they are unable to return home within normal business hours from the destination. In approving an overnight stay, the line manager will take into consideration:
* the length of the overall working day, including travel time to the destination;
* the likelihood of the staff member returning home by 7pm; 
* the mode of transport for travel to and from the destination;
* ensuring the health, wellbeing and safety of the employee is not compromised by the extended travel home, particularly in instances where travel to the destination is by car. 

11.3 Meal Allowances
 Staff that are required by their line manager/Chief Executive Officer to work more than 9 hours without advance notice, are entitled to a meal allowance, in accordance with Taxation Ruling 2003/7, see clause 11.2 for rates. Meal allowance is not payable if meals are provided free of charge (e.g. as part of Conference).
 
11.4 Transport 
11.4.1 Taxi Fares 
Taxis may be used if travel by public transport is not possible, practical or convenient. Cab charge vouchers are available as the preferred option of payment, full reimbursement for taxi costs will be made on production of receipts. 
The use of taxis will be limited to: 
* attending or facilitating workshops, training, lectures as part of work; 
* travelling home after 7.30pm; 
* attending work related meetings where travel by public transport is not convenient; 
* to transport equipment for work purposes. 
Staff are not expected to carry heavy boxes or equipment on public transport to either get to a venue or to reach a venue from home. 
11.4.2 Private Vehicles 
Private vehicle mileage will be recorded from leaving VCOSS to the required destination, and will be reimbursed in accordance with SACS Award rates. To qualify for such reimbursement, travel must be in accordance with the employee's role as listed in job description. Private vehicles must carry compulsory Third Party and Property insurance and the driver must be appropriately licensed. 
VCOSS is not responsible for damage incurred (or insurance excess) to a staff member's car in the course of their duties. VCOSS therefore encourages staff to acquire Comprehensive Insurance for their car if used for work purposes. 
Staff are responsible for payment of any fines for speeding, parking or other traffic offences. 
11.4.3 Hire Cars 
For any journey over 200km, staff are required to use hire cars in preference to personal vehicles, as this is the most cost effective option. Specific permission for use of private vehicles for trips over 200kms is required from the line manager.
When using hire cars, VCOSS will cover the cost of additional insurance on the car to limit personal liability to the minimum. It is important for staff to ensure they are covered for the minimum excess, and for all damage to the vehicle including broken windscreens and damage to tyres, headlights etc. VCOSS is not liable for any damage to the vehicle. 
11.4.4 Interstate Travel 
Staff will use economy air travel when travelling interstate. Bookings are to be coordinated through the line manager with all interstate travel to be prior endorsed by Chief Executive Officer. 

11.5 Accommodation 
VCOSS will cover the cost for any accommodation expenses, incurred for work related purposes outside the Melbourne metropolitan area, up to $100 a night. Costs above this limit must be authorised by the line manager/ Chief Executive Officer. There is a requirement to contain costs within reason. 
Staff will be entitled to their own room when required to stay away overnight, with the exception of ACOSS Board meetings and COSS Director meetings booked via ACOSS, which are on an agreed cost-share basis.


12 Hours of Work 
The ordinary hours of work shall be 37.5 hours per week and shall be worked in accordance with clause 12.2. 

12.1 Part Time Hours 
Staff who are employed part-time will have their hours of work per fortnight specified in their letter of appointment. Any permanent or regular adjustment to these hours needs to be agreed upon with the line manager and approved by the CEO. 

12.2 Spread of Hours 
The VCOSS office is open to the public from 9.00 am. until 5.00 pm. The span of core hours for work at VCOSS are 7am - 7pm , Monday to Friday. Staff may manage their own hours of work , provided they work no more than a ten hour day. Hours of work outside the hours of 7am-7pm and on weekends must be approved by the staff member's line manager. 
All staff are considered to be responsible professionals and therefore able to organise their time flexibly to balance their personal needs, occupational wellbeing and the operational needs of the organisation. The purpose of these flexible hours is to enable staff to tailor their work around personal commitments and to work extra hours to take a day off. Staff are thereby to negotiate their hours (inc. outside office hours) with their line manager and team members. 

12.3 Work Breaks 
12.3.1 All staff are entitled to up to one hour lunch break free from work, and are required to take a half hour unpaid lunch break. 
12.3.1 Every employee working a full day, however defined, shall be entitled to at least two 15 minute paid breaks from duty additional to their lunch break so as to allow physical relaxation and regeneration of concentration levels. Employees working less than a full day shall have a pro-rata entitlement. 

12.4 Time Sheets 
All staff are required to record their hours worked in the Time Sheet Book on their individual time sheet, with any necessary remarks being recorded, (e.g. 'sick'.) Staff are required to complete their time sheets on a daily basis to ensure that all working hours and breaks are recorded accurately.

12.5 Work and Family Responsibilities 
VCOSS recognises the needs of employees with family responsibilities and their right to address those responsibilities without conflict between their employment and their family responsibilities. Staff will not be placed under any pressure to work outside of their agreed hours of work. 
VCOSS recognises the need for and places priority on pursuing the introduction of conditions of work that assist employees with family responsibilities to effectively discharge both responsibilities. 
12.5.1 Flexible leave arrangements - 48/52 
In recognition of the extra childcare demands during school holiday times, employees with children of school age may apply to work the 48/ 52 model of employment. Employees who do not fit this criterion are not eligible to apply for this model of employment. This is a separate model of employment whereby the employee receives 4 weeks recreation leave and an additional 4 weeks unpaid leave per year (plus other leave entitlements) and is paid for 52 weeks per year at the fractional rate of 48/ 52 of the annual salary for his/ her position. The employee must take the additional 4 weeks leave per year during school holiday times. 
An employee working under the 48/ 52 model of employment may request a -reversion to standard employment conditions. Such requests can only be made every 12 months from the date of transfer to 48/ 52 employment. 

12.6 Time in Lieu - Overtime 
VCOSS will allow employees to take proportionate time off in lieu of payment of overtime. Time-in-lieu is accrued at a rate of time and a half for the first two hours and double time thereafter. Time in lieu is to be used to manage overtime worked by staff at the request of management. Flexitime provisions are to be used to manage staff time within the normal spread of hours. 
Time-in-lieu should be granted for purposes such as, but not limited to: 
* rural work,
* running conferences at the weekends or on public holidays, 
* night or weekend workshops or meetings, 
* staying overnight away from home for work purposes, during which time TIL will be granted at the rate of half a working day for each night away from home subject to clause 11.2 (casual employees will receive the wage equivalent),
* peak periods of work as agreed with the line manager 
* approved professional development outside of normal working hours, as directed by line manager to attend a priority function. 
12.6.1 Time In Lieu is accrued when a staff member is requested to perform a specified task outside the normal spread of hours or when the staff member works over 10 hours in any one day. All time-in-lieu (where possible) must be authorised by the line manager before it is accumulated. Time in lieu should be recorded on the staff member's time sheet as accrued. 
12.6.2 Accrual of time in lieu must not exceed 37.5 hours in total, pro rata, and must be taken within six months, unless exceptional circumstances prevent this from occurring. Time in lieu must be discussed with the line manager and approved accordingly. 
VCOSS is obliged to review working hours and an employee's workload as part of the Performance Appraisal process. As part of this process, employees who have accrued excessive hours of time in lieu, should be assisted with a plan to reduce the accrued hours and to ensure that the employee's workload is manageable within their specified working hours.
The payment of accrued time in lieu is not a standard practice at the time of resignation, however is open to negotiation between the employee and the Chief Executive Officer taking into consideration the following conditions:
* the ability of the organisation to delegate any of the employee's outstanding work requirements;
* the length of time in which the position is likely to be vacant and any handover requirements to the new employee;
* the normal daily workload of the position;
* the timing of the employee's departure around peak organisational events, eg. Congress.

Time in Lieu Procedure 
Time in Lieu to be authorised by line manager. The line manager and staff member to discuss appropriate time for TIL to be taken, taking into consideration the staff member's workplan, and any other operational requirements . 
12.7 Flexi-Time 
12.7.1 Flexi-time is accrued when a staff member works over the number of hours per fortnight that they have been employed to work, but not exceeding 10 hours per day or hours worked after 7pm or on weekends (any time worked outside the normal spread of hours ) is time-in-lieu for which authorisation is required, see clause 12.6). 
12.7.2 Staff may elect to use the flexi-time system to work up a day off (or part of a day). 
12.7.3 Unless exceptional circumstances apply, staff may accumulate up to a maximum of 37.5 hours flexitime, pro rata, which is to be taken within a three month period as negotiated with the line manager in order to accommodate operational requirements. 

12.8 Working at Home 
VCOSS recognises that sometimes working at home may be necessary. However, VCOSS aims to provide a comfortable and safe workplace, and all efforts are made to create an environment which is conducive to meeting employment obligations and which is worker friendly. 
12.8.1 Staff wishing to work at home must reach agreement with their line manager. Agreement should be based on specific task allocation. When working at home, staff are required to notify reception, giving details of when they will be back in the office and a number where they can be contacted (if required). 
12.8.2 Authorisation to work at home may be sought in the following circumstances: 
 work environment is unsatisfactory (this may mean that the staff member does not have their own desk and phone, they may share an office and need quiet time to write); 
 staff member has impending deadlines and needs to commit solid time, without interruption, to one project; 
 family commitment where other arrangement cannot be made; 
 air conditioning or power failure, or other necessary amenities at office are not working. 
12.8.3 Any pre-determined working at home time should be discussed with the line manager. Work done at home shall be monitored, according to agreement between parties concerned. In reaching agreement regarding working at home, line managers must take into consideration the staff members obligations at the office (e.g. attending staff meetings, answering calls etc.) in order to minimise the impact of their absence on other staff, and ensure that all Units are staffed. 


13 Leave 
13.1 Annual Leave 
Staff shall be entitled to annual leave on full pay for a period equal to four working weeks for each continuous twelve months service, as per the SACS Award. 
See also clause 12.5 for additional leave entitlements for staff members with children. 
It is preferable that staff do not carry forward into the following year an amount in excess of six weeks annual leave. 
13.1.1  Holiday Loading 
All staff are entitled to a 17.5% loading calculated on four weeks gross salary per year as stipulated in the SACS Award. 
If a staff member leaves the organisation for any reason, the pro rata loading shall be paid, calculated on gross base salary at the time of resignation, except in those circumstances which justify instant dismissal under clause 20.2.1 of this agreement.

13.2 Sick Leave 
13.2.1 Sick leave entitlements, in accordance with the SACS Award, shall be cumulative from the time of employment and determined in accordance with the following rate: 
 During the first year of employment, one working day for each month of service; 
 During the second, third and fourth years of service, 14 days in each year; and 
 Thereafter, 21 working days in each year. 
Part time staff will receive the above entitlements pro rata. 
Staff who are absent from work because of illness for more than two days at a time must produce a medical certificate supplied by a recognised health practitioner. No more than 10 single days in any one year may be taken without the production of a medical certificate. Sick leave on either side of a Public Holiday will not be paid without a medical certificate. 
Staff who are absent from work on any given day because of illness for any other reason, must where possible notify their line manager or reception , in the first instance, as soon as possible after 9.00am on that day. 
13.2.2 All staff members shall be able to use up to five days in any one year either from their own sick leave entitlements, or apply for unpaid leave, (if they have used up their own entitlements), for the purpose of caring for sick family or household members or in extreme compassionate circumstances. 
The Co-ordinator of Administration will be responsible for maintaining the following records: 
* each staff member's sick leave entitlements; 
* use of all personal leave entitlements by each staff member; 
* the number of sick days taken by each staff member.

13.3 Bereavement / Compassionate Leave 
Upon the death of a near relative, a staff member will be entitled to three ordinary days paid leave, which will include the day of the funeral. 
A "near relative" means:
* a spouse, partner or de facto partner;
* a dependent child; 
* a parent or step-parent (or parent-in-law)
* a sibling or a sibling of the employee's partner
* a grandparent or step-grandparent (or grandparent-in-law)
* another relative or close personal friend as agreed between the employer and the employee.
The line manager is to be notified of any application for bereavement/compassionate leave. 

13.4 Exceptional Circumstances Leave 
VCOSS has established this additional process to give its staff stability and security of uninterrupted income during periods of absence from work because of illness or other exceptional circumstances. 
VCOSS will have responsibility for considering a request for additional sick leave for a period of up to four weeks annually. This leave may not be accrued. 
Staff will be required to use all personal leave entitlements prior to making an application for Exceptional Circumstances Leave. 
 
13.5 Personal and Family Leave
13.5.1 Purpose of clause
The purpose of this clause is to enable employees with caring responsibilities to take a limited amount of time off during ordinary working hours without loss of pay to meet those responsibilities, where it would be unreasonable to expect them to make alternative arrangements.
Personal and family leave may be taken for reasons such as, but not limited to:
* traditional or customary leave;
* caring for a near relative (as defined in clause 13.3. Bereavement / Compassionate Leave) 
* attending to the education of a dependent child;
* moving house.
where these tasks cannot reasonably be performed outside working hours and where alternative arrangements are either inappropriate, unavailable or impractical.
13.5.2 Eligibility for Personal and Family Leave
An employee is entitled to a total of up to and including 5 days Personal and Family Leave, pro rata, on full pay for each 12 months of continuous service with the employer. Entitlements will not accumulate from year to year.
13.5.3 Application for Personal and Family Leave
Where practical, an employee wishing to take Personal and Family Leave will notify their line manager before taking leave, stating the reason for seeking leave.
Where the reason is the illness of a person requiring care or the usual caregiver, and the employee is absent for more than two consecutive days, the employee will provide a medical certificate. 
 
13.6 Long Service Leave 
All employees are entitled to Long Service Leave equivalent to 13 weeks after 10 years of service. Employees are entitled to take their Long Service Leave entitlement pro-rata after five years of service, in accordance with the following table:
Length of serviceWeeks payable5 years4.556 years6.247 years8.198 years10.49 years11.710 years13.0
13.6.1 Long Service Leave pay rate
Long Service Leave will be paid at the employee's current pay rate, pro rata according to the mean weekly hours worked over their entire term of service

13.7 Study Leave 
Staff members employed full time shall be entitled to one half day study leave per week without loss of pay in order to undertake a course of study (or part of a course) relevant to their current position/role, other organisational needs or career advancement, approved by the line manager. Any staff member seeking to take study leave in a block would need to negotiate this with VCOSS. In addition all staff are entitled to one day's study leave for exams plus leave on the day of the exam to a maximum of 4 days in total per year. 
Additional time without loss of pay may be granted at the discretion of VCOSS . In the case of employees hired on a part time basis, entitlement to study leave shall be pro rata. 

13.8 Leave Without Pay 
Leave without pay shall be granted by agreement for the purpose of: 
* Professional development; 
* Extended study relevant to work (e.g. Masters, PhD); 
* Secondment to a position; 
* Personal reasons (e.g. parenting or caring responsibilities, travel). 
Application for leave without pay is to be made in writing by a staff member to the Chief Executive Officer. Application for leave without pay is only open to staff who have been employed by VCOSS for at least 12 months. The application will need to outline the period of time and the purpose of the leave and staff will be required to give 3 months notice of the intention to take LWOP. The Chief Executive Officer will be responsible for the final decision. 
 
13.9 Parental Leave 
13.9.1 Eligibility for Paid Parental Leave
An employee who has completed at least 12 months' service is entitled to parental leave, to care for a newborn, adopted or permanent placement fostered child, in accordance with the SACS Award. 
13.9.2 Paid Parental Leave
An employee eligible under clause 13.9.1 is entitled to a period of paid parental leave.
13.9.3 Maternity Leave
Paid Maternity leave is available for a total of 13 weeks granted with full salary. Staff may elect to take Paid Maternity leave over a longer period as agreed with the employer. eg. Staff may take 26 weeks leave paid at 50% of full salary. Any remaining period of Maternity leave will be taken as unpaid leave of absence. 
If during the period of paid Maternity leave, a pregnancy results in a stillbirth, the employee is entitled to complete the period of paid Maternity leave at full pay. 
13.9.4 Co-Parental Leave
Paid Co-Parental leave is available to a staff member who is parenting a new born or adopted child, but who is not the primary care giver, for a period of four weeks. 
If during the period of paid Co-Parental leave, a pregnancy results in a stillbirth, the employee is entitled to complete the period of paid Co-Parental leave at full pay.
13.9.5 Unpaid Parental Leave
In addition to Paid Parental Leave, the parent who is the primary care giver is entitled to unpaid leave of absence to extend the total period of leave up to 12 months. During the unpaid period of parental leave, further entitlements to sick leave, recreation leave and paid public holidays do not accrue and cannot, therefore, be used to extend the period of paid leave. 
13.9.6  Commencement and completion of Parental Leave
An employee will, at least 10 weeks prior to the presumed date of the birth, give notice in writing to the employer stating the presumed date of birth.
The employee will give at least 4 weeks notice, in writing, of their intention to commence Maternity Leave and the period of leave to be taken. VCOSS recognises that commencement of Maternity Leave may not follow original intent and will be flexible and accommodating with changing circumstances provided that employees notify the employer of changes as soon as practical. 
13.9.7 Variation of period of leave
By giving at least 14 days notice in writing, an employee may shorten or lengthen the period of leave to be taken; provided this is done only once within the total period of leave (except by agreement with the employer). 
13.9.8 Illness before commencement of maternity leave
Where an employee not then on maternity leave suffers illness related to her pregnancy, she may take any sick leave to which she is then entitled and such further special maternity leave as a registered medical practitioner certifies as necessary before her return to work. 
13.9.9 Special parental leave

Maternity Leave
Where the pregnancy of an employee not then on paid maternity leave terminates after 20 weeks other then by the birth of a living child, then the employee is entitled to take up to four weeks of paid Special maternity leave to assist with recovery. In addition, she may use accrued sick leave entitlements or a period of unpaid leave, as a registered medical practitioner certifies as necessary.
Co-Parental Leave
Where the pregnancy of a partner terminates after 20 weeks other then by the birth of a living child, then the employee is entitled to take up to one week of paid Special Co-Parental leave.
13.9.10 Returning to work
When an employee returns to work after a period of parental leave, VCOSS must provide the employee with similar duties at the same classification level to those performed immediately before the employee commenced parental leave. Full-time staff being the primary care giver, will be entitled to negotiate a return to part-time work following parental leave. In the interests of a smooth transition to part-time work, part time arrangements must be negotiated 4 weeks prior to returning to work. 
13.9.11 Termination of Employment 
An employee may terminate her or his employment at any time during the period of leave by giving notice in accordance with this Agreement.
13.9.12 Replacement Employees
A replacement employee is an employee specifically engaged or temporarily promoted or transferred to fill a vacancy arising due to Parental Leave.
Before the employer employs a replacement employee or transfers an existing employee under this sub-clause, the employer will inform him or her of the temporary nature of the employment or transfer and of the rights of the employee who is being replaced.
This sub-clause does not imply that the employer is required to engage a replacement employee. 


14 Public Holidays 
Staff are entitled to receive full pay for a public holiday that occurs on a regular working day for that staff member, as per the SACS Award. 
VCOSS and an employee may agree to substitute another day for any of the public holidays prescribed at Clause 22 in the Social and Community Services - Victoria - Award 2000. 
An agreement pursuant to the above shall be recorded in writing and be available to all affected employees and the ASU. 
In addition, staff will be entitled to days off with full pay on the days falling between Boxing Day and New Years Day in recognition of the increased workload traditionally experienced by staff during December. 


15 Harassment, Occupational Health and Safety, and Workplace Injury 
VCOSS is responsible for providing a working environment where employees are free from harassment, where it is safe to work, and where employees are assured of appropriate workplace support in the event of workplace injury. 

15.1 Harassment 
Harassment is an unacceptable and illegal behaviour that will not be tolerated under any circumstances. VCOSS believes that all people have the right to work in an environment that is free of harassment. VCOSS is committed to preventing all forms of harassment and redressing harassment where it has occurred. 
Line managers /Chief Executive Officer are required to ensure that all employees are treated fairly and equitably and are not subject to harassment. VCOSS will also ensure that complainants and witnesses are not victimised in any way. 
Any reports of harassment will be treated seriously by VCOSS, and will be investigated thoroughly and confidentially. Disciplinary action will be taken against anyone found to be guilty of harassing a co-worker. 
Harassment is any form of verbal or physical behaviour that is uninvited, unwelcome and personally offensive to the recipient and creates an intimidating, hostile or offensive environment. Harassment may take the form of, but is not limited to: 
* sexism 
* racism 
* favouritism 
* victimisation 
* coercion 
* jokes or innuendo 
* torment, intimidation abuse or assault. 
In the instance that a staff member believes to be a recipient of harassment, they should implement the grievance procedure as outlined in clause 17.1 of this agreement, and, where necessary, disciplinary action will be taken in accordance with clause 17.2. 
 
15.2 Occupational Health and Safety 
15.2.1 The parties to this agreement acknowledge the considerable human and financial costs of occupational stress and agree to work together to reduce the incidence and cost of stress related illness. The parties share the concern that the rise in incidence may indicate ongoing workplace management issues that require attention. 
The parties further acknowledge that prevention of work related stress would be a significant contributor to achieving reduction in the incidence of stress related illness and that the effectiveness of the outcomes from measures developed can be further enhanced by co-operative and collaborative efforts between the parties to this agreement. 
15.2.2 VCOSS will comply with the 1985 Occupational Health and Safety Act (Vic.), and relevant regulations and Codes of Practice. 
The Occupational Health and Safety Act 1985 states that: 
* Employers are required to provide and maintain a work environment that is safe and without risks to health for employees. 
* Employees must not wilfully or recklessly interfere with or misuse anything provided in the interests of health, safety or welfare. 
* Employees must not wilfully place at risk the health or safety of any person at the workplace. 
VCOSS will: 
* Consult with relevant staff and occupational health and safety representatives in the workplace in relation to "work changes" and when selecting plant, equipment and substances with the aim of eliminating or reducing hazards at the workplace. 
* Introduce occupational health and safety training programs aimed at maximising employee input to the identification, assessment and control of hazards. 
* Provide effective rehabilitation of injured workers and an early return to work program. 
* Accepts the provisions of section 29 and 30 of the 1985 Occupational Health and Safety Act (Vic.) 
* Agree to establish and maintain an Occupational Health and Safety Committee (which may be as part of the Joint Consultative Committee as negotiated). Any concerns about the state of the work environment will be directed to the OH&S Officers. The officers will be responsible for addressing any concerns or raising them with the Chief Executive Officer to be resolved. 
* Agree to provide access for approved training of elected Occupational Health and Safety Representatives to a maximum of 10 days in any two-year period. 
* Agree to provide access to first-aid training 
* Agree to provide a workplace first-aid kit 

15.3 Workplace Injury 
VCOSS keeps a register of injuries. All employees are required to report any injury to their line manager in the first instance and record the injury, in detail, in the Workplace Register. This should include name of staff member, type of injury, date, time, place where injury occurred and name of the line manager notified. The responsibility is then with the line manager to report the injury to the Occupational Health and Safety representative/s and to ensure proper procedure is being followed. This may include ensuring that the staff member has been seen by a health practitioner and ongoing support and assessment is in place. 
VCOSS agrees to provide relevant rehabilitation to employees who have suffered an injury or illness that is work-related. VCOSS shall investigate the possibility of providing alternative duties to assist in the rehabilitation process in consultation with the rehabilitation provider. 


16 Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action 
VCOSS is wholly committed to the principles of equal opportunity and affirmative action. This commitment will require specific affirmative employment plans or arrangements aimed at overcoming barriers to employment that members of a particular group encounter. Such active steps will be taken within the overall framework of establishing employment practices, a work environment which is free of discrimination and harassment (see Harassment policy) on the basis of a person's sex, marital status, disability (physical, intellectual, sensory or emotional), pregnancy, being a parent or childless, race, colour, national origin, age, sexual preference, political or religious belief or activity, general health including communicable diseases. 
This policy commitment to achieving equality of employment opportunity applies to all phases of employment, including but not limited to, selection and appointment of personnel, promotion, training, staff, superannuation, compensation benefits and terms and conditions of employment. 
All discriminatory behaviour is undesirable, may be unlawful and will not be tolerated. VCOSS expects that all staff paid and unpaid will take responsibility for fair, non-discriminatory behaviour. Any reports of discrimination against a staff member will be treated seriously by VCOSS, and will be investigated thoroughly and confidentially. 


17 Conflict Resolution 
An employee who has a grievance arising out of his/her employment shall have the right for the grievance to be heard through each level of line management. Similarly, where a conflict arises between two employees, both employees have the right to resolve the conflict in a considerate and timely manner. VCOSS will make every effort to attempt to assist the employees in resolving the conflict, without prejudice. 

17.1 Dispute Resolution and Grievance Procedure 
The grievance procedure is to be used when raising an issue of concern with another employee or manager where it directly affects the work practices of another employee, in relation to a matter raised in this agreement or any other matter causing a dispute between parties. This process can also be used to try to resolve personal conflict between two staff members. It is not to be used as a disciplinary procedure - the correct process for a disciplinary procedure is outlined elsewhere in this agreement and when necessary will be adhered to. 
It is expected that all parties involved in the process will attempt to keep the details of any conflict and the steps to resolve it confidential, however staff may seek support through JCC staff representatives, as required.

17.1.1 In the first instance, the employee shall attempt to resolve the grievance with the other party concerned. The employee will, in the first instance, approach the staff member they have an issue with and raise the matter directly with them. This step may take the form of one informal meeting, or it may be a series of meetings as agreed by both parties.
17.1.2 In situations where it is clear that the employees are unable to rectify the situation without the input of a third party, staff may seek support from their line manager. In the case where the complaint is with the Chief Executive Officer, the staff member may seek the support of the President of the Board. At this stage the line manager will assist in developing agreed strategies for Staff members to work on with an ongoing support and review process. Either party may be represented by an employee or employer representative and/or the Joint Consultative Committee. 
17.1.3 If the employee still feels aggrieved, he/ she shall inform the Chief Executive Officer who shall consult with the parties. An employee representative or JCC may be present at the request of either party. 
17.1.4 If after all reasonable steps have been taken in an endeavour to resolve the grievance, as detailed above, and the grievance remains unsolved, then the employee representative shall be advised in writing and a meeting arranged with employer representative and the employee representative. 
17.1.5 If the grievance still exists the matter may be referred to an appropriate body, e.g. Australian Industrial Relations Commission or another mutually acceptable person or body for mediation, conciliation or arbitration. The result of this process shall be accepted as final by both parties. 
17.1.6 Steps 1 to 4 shall take place within ten working days. 
17.1.7 Employees may seek mediation from steps 2 to 4 if mutually agreed upon. 
17.1.8 At any point during this procedure an employee shall have the right to seek advice and support from their representative and/or VCOSS JCC. 
17.1.9 Until the grievance is determined, work shall continue normally in accordance with the custom and practice existing before the grievance while discussions take place, as long as this is mutually agreed upon by the parties involved. Health and Safety matters are exempted from this clause. 
17.1.10 No party shall be prejudiced as to the final settlement by the continuation of work. 
17.1.11 All employees shall be handed a copy of these procedures on commencement of employment. 

17.2 Disciplinary Procedure 
The disciplinary procedure is used to address ongoing performance related issues that arise that have not been resolved through regular feedback or the performance appraisal process. The disciplinary procedure shall be fair and negotiable. Discussion between management and staff is encouraged. 
It is important to note that employees have the right to look at their personnel files and to make copies of documents held therein. An appointment can be made with the Co-ordinator of Administration. 
17.2.1 Procedure for Disciplinary Action
First Warning 
1. The employee in question is told by their line manager as soon as possible of any complaint concerning the performance of their work. 
2. Complaints must be specific in nature, citing specific examples, including times and dates relating to the complaint. The complaint must relate to the employee's job performance, as outlined in their job description, OR result from a grievance procedure whereby an employee is found to be guilty of harassment as outlined in clause 15.1 (e.g. not "s/he doesn't get along with the team" - this is a grievance). 
3. The Complaint is to be discussed with the employee and the line manager (as the employer representative), who will mutually determine a strategy to improve/eliminate the behaviour in question. The staff member is entitled to have an employee representative or another 'support' person present at the discussion. 
4. The Verbal warning is recorded on file. 
5. The employee shall be given the opportunity to sign the entry and be given a copy of the entry. If the employee declines to sign the entry, the record will be endorsed to that effect by management. 
6. At the expiration of twelve months, if no further related difficulty has occurred the warning shall be removed from the staff members file. 

First Written Warning 
1. If the problem continues or occurs again after the verbal warning, the employee may be given written notice of the complaint/s against them. Again the complaints must cite specific examples, including times and dates. 
2. The matter is then reported to the Chief Executive Officer. At all times confidentiality should be maintained to minimise loss of confidence and respect. A representative of VCOSS management will then meet with the staff member. The staff member then has the opportunity to discuss the complaints made against them. The staff member is entitled to be represented by an employee representative of their choice. 
3. The aim of the meeting is to result in a change in the inappropriate behaviour but if this is not possible the two parties should negotiate how the situation may be improved. A trial period is set during which certain changes should occur. A date is then set to review the agreed changes. 
4. A review takes place after this trial period. A written record of this meeting should be placed on the staff members file. 
5. After this the dispute may be resolved and there may be no need for further action. 
6. The employee shall be given the opportunity to sign the entry and be given a copy of the entry. If the employee declines to sign the entry, the record will be endorsed to that effect by management. 
7. At the expiration of twelve months, if no further related difficulty has occurred the warnings shall be removed from the staff members file. 

Final Written Warning 
1. If the problem persists, another meeting is called by the Chief Executive Officer and the employee is given notice to attend. 
2. The employee has the right of reply to discuss the situation. They are also entitled to have an employee representative of their choice attend the meeting. 
3. The matter is discussed and further action may be considered. Both parties need to negotiate what this action might be and the employee is given written notice (a final written warning). Again an accurate record of this meeting should be placed on file. 
4. The employee shall be given the opportunity to sign the entry and be given a copy of the entry. If the employee declines to sign the entry, the record will be endorsed to that effect by management 
5. If this meeting resolves the dispute there is no need for further action. 
6. At the expiration of twelve months, if no further related difficulty has occurred the warnings shall be removed from the staff members file. 
If the problem still continues after these three warnings, the staff member will be required to attend a further meeting at which a decision regarding the future employment of the employee in question will be made. The employee may be dismissed after three warnings have been given. If dismissed, the staff member will be given notice (4 weeks payment in lieu of notice).
Whilst at any stage, either party may refer the matter to the Australian Industrial Relations Commission, VCOSS strongly recommends that both parties make reasonable attempts to resolve the issue/s using the above process. Management may also consider alternatives like a formal "dispute resolution meeting" to further attempt to resolve the problem before deciding on termination. 


18 Training and Development 
VCOSS recognises that in order to increase efficiency, productivity and to enhance work satisfaction and career development, a commitment to training and skill development is necessary. Accordingly, the organisation commits to provide employees with access to mutually agreed training opportunities , and paid leave will be granted to employees for the purpose of pursuing training opportunities. An amount at least equal to 1.5% of staff salary budgets will be available for this purpose and spent according to organisational planning arrangements. 


19 Industrial Relations 
VCOSS is committed to: 
* Developing and maintaining constructive on-going interaction between VCOSS, employees and the employee industrial representative organisation party to this agreement.
* Agreed objectives for the organisation.
* Respecting the rights of employees to engage in Union activities.
* Effective prevention and settlement of industrial disputes.
* Regular consultation and communication, and the establishment of an appropriate forum for such consultation between the employer/ employee and the employee industrial representative organisation party to this agreement. 

19.1 Right of Entry 
A properly accredited official or officer of the Australian Services Union or other relevant Union shall have rights of access to enter VCOSS for the purpose of ensuring compliance with the award and for disagreements or other matters relating to the relationship between the employer and employees.

19.2 Workplace Representative Training 
Each employee nominated as an employee representative shall be entitled to devote reasonable time to attend to staff representation issues on the job, in addition to any committee involvement. All workplace representatives shall be entitled to paid training leave. All EEO and OHS representatives shall be entitled to 5 days per year training leave. The costs of this will be attributed to the core of the organisation, not any particular service or business unit. Part timers shall get full entitlements. 


20 Change of Employment Status 
20.1 Resignation
An employee wishing to terminate their employment shall do so by providing four weeks notice in writing. The employee may negotiate with their line manager to alter the notice period after the resignation has been submitted. 

20.2 Dismissal 
Termination of employment by the employer will not be harsh, unjust or unreasonable having regard to all circumstances. An employee will not be dismissed without regard to the Disciplinary Procedure as outlined in clause 17.2. An employee dismissed under this clause, will be entitled to receive 4 weeks pay in lieu of notice.
20.2.1 Instant Dismissal
VCOSS is committed to constructive relationships with employees, however should circumstances constituting serious misconduct arise, instant dismissal may be the most appropriate course of action. Serious misconduct includes the following: 
* wilful misconduct, that is serious in nature and that compromises the organisation;
* dishonesty of the employee in relation to the employment;
* commission of a crime in the course of employment;
* commission of a crime outside the course of employment which is relevant to the duties of the employee and compromises the organisation; 
* neglect of duty which happens on a regular basis and is of a serious nature; and
* abandonment of employment.
An employee that is instantly dismissed shall not be entitled to payment in lieu of notice.

20.3 Redundancy 
Redundancy occurs where an employer has made a definite decision that the employer no longer wishes the job the employee has been doing done by anyone and that decision leads to the termination of employment of the employee, except where this is due to the ordinary and customary turnover of labour.

In such a case, the line manager has a responsibility to inform staff members that the position is redundant and to investigate avenues to redeploy. If redeployment is not possible, the Award provisions will apply (Termination of employment and Redundancy). An employee should be notified of the redundancy as soon as possible, but not less than 4 weeks prior to the redundancy becoming effective. 
20.3.1 Consultation with staff
VCOSS will notify and fully consult its employees and any industrial organisations to which the employees may belong, in advance of any change in funding, policy or work structure that has the potential for significant effects on the employment status, classification or job responsibilities of any employee. VCOSS will make all efforts to avert or minimise disadvantage to individual employees. VCOSS will demonstrate that there is no reasonable alternative to the proposed action and that other options have been canvassed.
20.3.2 Job Vacancies
Any employee made redundant within the past six months will be considered Internal staff in accordance with clause 9.1 and will be eligible to apply for any vacant positions as per the Recruitment Procedure outlined in clause 9.
20.3.3 Severance Pay 
In addition to the period of notice required for termination, as outlined below, and any leave entitlements owing (including any accrued annual leave, Time-in-lieu and pro rata long service leave), permanent employees shall be entitled to the following amounts of severance pay according to length of service: 
Period of continuous service		Severance Pay
26 to 52 weeks	2 weeks 
More than 52 weeks and up to 2 years	4 weeks 
More than 2 years and up to 3 years	6 weeks 
More than 3 years and up to 4 years	7 weeks 
More than 4 years and up to 5 years	8 weeks 
More than 5 years and up to 6 years	10 weeks 
More than 6 years and up to 7 years	11 weeks 
More than 7 years and up to 8 years	13 weeks
More than 8 years and up to 9 years	14 weeks
More than 9 years	16 weeks
(a 'weeks pay' means the ordinary pay for the employee concerned) 
An employee aged over 45 years will be given an addition weeks severance pay in accordance with the SACS Award.
20.3.4 Time off during notice period
During the period of notice of termination given by the employer, as employee shall be entitled to one day's time off without loss of pay during each week of notice for the purposes of seeking other employment.

20.4 Outgoing employees 
20.4.1 Exit interviews 
All outgoing employees are entitled-to request an exit interview at the time of resignation or retrenchment, with any one or a combination of the following: 
* Line manager 
* Chief Executive Officer 
* Member of the Joint Consultative Committee 
The Line manager/Chief Executive Officer is responsible for informing outgoing employees of this entitlement at the time of resignation or retrenchment. 
20.4.2 References 
All employees, paid and unpaid, who have been in the employ of VCOSS for a minimum period of three months will be entitled to receive a letter of reference written by their line manager or the Chief Executive Officer. All references must include the dates of the period of employment and the position title. 


21 Acceptance of Agreement 
The provisions laid down in this agreement are hereby accepted: 
Signed on behalf of VCOSSWitnessed Dated Signed on behalf of ASU Witnessed Dated 
22 
Appendix 1 - Salary Structure

Salary Structure

Effective 1 July 2008 - 30 June 2009 
Indexation 08-09 = 6.2%  [2% + Min 2.5% CPI (4.2% March Qtr)] 
(based on Full Time Employment)


Level 1Level 2Level 3Level 4Level 5Gross SalaryHourly rateGross SalaryHourly rateGross SalaryHourly rateGross SalaryHourly rateGross SalaryHourly rate$ 41,131$ 21.09$ 42,569$ 21.83$ 44,060$ 22.60$ 45,601$ 23.39$ 47,197$ 24.20$ 47,197$ 24.20$ 48,850$ 25.05$ 48,850$ 25.05$ 50,559$ 25.92$ 52,329$ 26.84$ 54,161$ 27.77$ 54,161$ 27.77$ 56,056$ 28.75$ 58,068$ 29.78$ 60,049$ 30.80$ 62,149$ 31.87$ 62,149$ 31.87$ 64,323$ 32.99$ 66,632$ 34.18$ 68,963$ 35.36$ 71,378$ 36.61$ 71,378$ 36.61$ 73,876$ 37.88$ 76,460$ 39.21$ 79,136$ 40.58$ 81,904$ 42.00


Salary Structure

Effective 1 July 2007 - 30 June 2008 
Indexation 07-08 = 4.5%  [2% + Min 2.5% CPI (2.4% March Qtr)] 
(based on Full Time Employment)


Level 1Level 2Level 3Level 4Level 5Gross SalaryHourly rateGross SalaryHourly rateGross SalaryHourly rateGross SalaryHourly rateGross SalaryHourly rate$ 38,730  $   19.86          $ 40,084 $   20.56         $ 41,488  $   21.28          $ 42,939 $   22.02         $ 44,442  $   22.79  $ 44,442 $   22.79      $ 45,998  $   23.59  $ 45,998 $   23.59         $ 47,607  $   24.41          $ 49,274  $   25.27          $ 50,999  $   26.15  $ 50,999 $   26.15         $ 52,783  $   27.07          $ 54,678  $   28.04          $ 56,543  $   29.00          $ 58,521  $   30.01  $ 58,521  $   30.01          $ 60,568  $   31.06          $ 62,742  $   32.18          $ 64,937  $   33.30          $ 67,211  $   34.47  $ 67,211  $   34.47          $ 69,563  $   35.67          $ 71,996  $   36.92          $ 74,516  $   38.21  $ 77,122  $   39.55

Salary Structure

Effective 1 July 2006 - 30 June 2007 (final, 3% CPI + 2% increase) 
(based on Full Time Employment)

Level 1Level 2Level 3Level 4Level 5Gross SalaryHourly rateGross SalaryHourly rateGross SalaryHourly rateGross SalaryHourly rateGross SalaryHourly rate $ 37,062  $   18.95          $ 38,358  $   19.61         $ 39,701  $   20.30         $ 41,090  $   21.01         $ 42,528  $   21.74  $ 42,528  $   21.74       $ 44,017  $   22.50  $ 44,017  $   22.50          $ 45,557  $   23.29          $ 47,152  $   24.11          $ 48,803  $   24.95  $ 48,803  $   24.95          $ 50,510  $   25.82          $ 52,323  $   26.75          $ 54,108  $   27.66          $ 56,001  $   28.63  $ 56,001  $   28.63          $ 57,960  $   29.63          $ 60,040  $   30.70          $ 62,141  $   31.77          $ 64,317  $   32.88  $ 64,317  $   32.88          $ 66,567  $   34.03          $ 68,896  $   35.22          $ 71,307  $   36.46  $ 73,801 $   37.73

1


2


