
DEED OF ASSIGNMENT OF INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY - FROM A CONTRACTOR TO THE UNIVERSITY


THIS DEED OF ASSIGNMENT is made pursuant to the Griffith University Intellectual Property Policy and the Griffith University Intellectual Property Procedures as amended from time to time and housed in the Griffith University Policy Library. 

WHEREAS: 

A.	The Contractor has developed and owns Intellectual Property or will in the course of the Purpose create Intellectual Property.

B.	The University wishes to acquire ownership of the Intellectual Property from the Contractor.

C.	The Contractor agrees to assign its Intellectual Property rights to the University in accordance with the terms of this Deed.

1.0 DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATION
1.1 Defined terms are set out in this Deed.  Any term appearing in capitals which is not defined in this Deed will take the definition prescribed within the Griffith University Intellectual Property Policy and the Griffith University Intellectual Property Procedures.
1.2 To the extent of any inconsistency between terms defined in this Deed and terms defined in the Griffith University Intellectual Property Policy and the Griffith University Intellectual Property Procedures, the terms defined in this Deed prevail. 
2.0 ASSIGNMENT OF INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY
2.1 The Contractor assigns to the University all rights, title and interest in the Intellectual Property created by the Contractor during the course of or incidentally to the Purpose. 
2.2 The Contractor:
(a) grants the University the right to apply for patent protection in respect of any invention or innovation comprised in the Intellectual Property;
(b) acknowledges that no additional documentation is necessary to complete the assignment; and
(c) will do all things reasonably requested by the University (at the University's expense) to enable the University or its assignee to obtain and/or exploit the Intellectual Property rights assigned under this Deed.
2.3 The Contractor must not, without the University's written consent, deal with the Intellectual Property in a manner which is inconsistent with the provisions of this Deed.
3.0 REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES
3.1 The Contractor represents and warrants that: 
(a) to the best of its knowledge it has all the necessary rights and licences (including the right to sub-license) in the Intellectual Property to allow the University to assert its rights pursuant to clause 2.1 of this Deed;
(b) it has the rights and power to enter into, perform and observe his/her obligations under this Deed;
(c) to the best of its knowledge the exercise by the University of its rights under clause 2.1 of this Deed does not and will not infringe the intellectual property rights of a third person;
(d) it is not involved in any commercial activities that might conflict with the commercialisation of the Intellectual Property (as defined in the Appendix of the Griffith University Intellectual Property Policy) of the University;
(e) it will immediately notify the Deputy Vice Chancellor (Research) if he/she becomes involved in any commercial activities that might conflict with the commercialisation of the Intellectual Property (as defined in the Appendix of the Griffith University Intellectual Property Policy) of the University;
(f) it will maintain confidentiality in relation to the Intellectual Property; and 
(g) it and/or its employees (where applicable) may have Moral Rights in the Intellectual Property and so far as it is / they are able the Contractor and/or the Contractor's employees (where applicable) have waived, to the extent permissible, its / their Moral Rights in respect of the Intellectual Property and have voluntarily and unconditionally consented to the University or persons authorised by the University doing, or omitting to do, with respect to the Intellectual Property, any act, including but not limited to:
(i) reproducing, publishing, communicating, performing or adapting the Intellectual Property without attributing its authorship to the author;
(ii) any alteration to or deletion from the Intellectual Property (including the relocation, demolition or destruction of the Intellectual Property, whether or not the alteration to or deletion from is prejudicial to the author's honour or reputation); or
(iii) dealing in any way with Intellectual Property which has been substantially altered; or reproducing the Intellectual Property which has been substantially altered, as the author's unaltered Work,
which would otherwise infringe the Contractor's and/or the Contractor's employees (where applicable) Moral Rights in the Intellectual Property.
4.0 GENERAL
4.1 Indemnity
The Contractor will indemnify the University, its staff or agents against any loss suffered or incurred by the University including a third party claim against the University, its staff or agents arising from a breach of this Deed by the Contractor, its employees, officers or agents.
4.2 Entire Deed
This Deed, together with the relevant Schedule that applies to the Contractor, constitutes the entire agreement between the Parties. This Deed supersedes all previous written and oral agreements and understandings reached by the Parties regarding the assignment of Intellectual Property.
4.3 Provision of Intellectual Property
The Contractor will, as soon as is reasonably possible following a request from the University, provide the University with a complete copy of all documentation (in any format) relating to the Intellectual Property for the University's own use, to meet record-keeping requirements of the University or to allow the University to assert its rights granted pursuant to this Deed.
4.4 Amendment
Alterations or variations of this Deed will not be valid unless in writing and signed by both Parties.
4.5 No Waiver
No rights under this Deed will be deemed to be waived except where the waiver is in writing and is signed by the University.
Any failure by the University to enforce any clause of this Deed or any forbearance, delay or indulgence granted by the University to the Contractor, will not be construed as a waiver of the University's rights under this Deed.
4.6 Severability
Part or all of any provision of this Deed that is illegal or unenforceable may be severed from this Deed and the remaining provisions of this Deed continue in force.
4.7 Relationship
This Deed does not create a relationship of employment, agency or partnership between the Parties.
4.8 Governing law and jurisdiction
This Deed shall be governed and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Queensland, Australia. The parties submit unconditionally to the jurisdiction of the Courts of Queensland.
4.9 Execution
This Deed shall be effective once it is executed by the Contractor, irrespective of whether it is executed by the University.


SCHEDULE 1

1.0 DEFINITIONS
1.1 "Intellectual Property" means the Intellectual Property as prescribed in section 3.0 of the Griffith University Intellectual Property Policy.
'Purpose' means the research or service undertaken by the Contractor in relation to [insert detail of research/services].


THIS DEED OF ASSIGNMENT is made on the [insert day of the month] day of [insert month] [insert year].


BETWEEN:	Griffith University, a body corporate established by the Griffith University Act 1998, of Kessels Road, Nathan in the State of Queensland
("the University")

AND:		[insert name of Contractor]
of [insert address of Contractor]				("Contractor")

 (each a "Party" and together "The Parties")


EXECUTED as a DEED:


Signed by [INSERT NAME OF CONTRACTOR AND ABN] by an authorised officer in the presence of?Signature of officer?Signature of witnessName of officerName of witness (print)Office heldDate


Signed for GRIFFITH UNIVERSITY by an authorised officer in the presence of??Signature of witnessSignature of Pro Vice Chancellor (Administration)Name of witness (print)Name of Pro Vice Chancellor (Administration) (print)Date





BNE5_320503_2 (W2003)

 		Page 2

		Page 1
G:\AA\LLO\Proformas & Precedents\Deeds of Assignment\IP Assignment\IP Assignment from Contractor to GU (IP Policy) (Protected Web Version 3Jul06).doc

