
FLIGHT ATTENDANTS' ASSOCIATION OF AUSTRALIA DOMESTIC/REGIONAL DIVISION CASUAL FLIGHT ATTENDANTS ENTERPRISE AGREEMENT 2006.


1. TITLE

This Agreement shall be known as the Flight Attendants' Association of Australia Domestic/Regional Division Casual Flight Attendants Enterprise Agreement 2006.

2. PARTIES BOUND

This Agreement is binding on:

(a) Maurice Alexander Management;
(b) The Flight Attendants' Association of Australia - Domestic/Regional Division and
(c) All flight attendants who are employed by Maurice Alexander Management to perform work within the Short Haul Division of Qantas Airways Limited.

All Flight Attendants who are employed by Maurice Alexander Management to perform work within the Short Haul Division of Qantas Airways Limited are covered by this Agreement.

3. NO EXTRA CLAIMS

This is a comprehensive Agreement in settlement of all of the Association's Enterprise Bargaining claims. It replaces in its entirety the all other certified agreements, awards, orders of industrial commissions or industrial agreements that would otherwise apply to Flight Attendants.  The parties agree that it is a term of this agreement not to pursue any extra claims except where provided for under this Agreement and/or except where consistent with the National Wage Case principles.

4. ARRANGEMENT

Clause NumberSubject Matter23Absence Due to Illness18Accommodation, Daily Travelling Allowance and Transport, Meals and Disability Allowance - Away from Home Base9Anti Discrimination4Arrangement6Commitments by the Parties31Contact Obligations30Contract of Employment and Flight Attendant Obligations5Definitions28Leave of Absence - Unpaid34Drafting29Duty Hour Limitations20Duty Travel 10Facilitative Provision27Flight Attendant Lounges17Grooming and Uniforms7Incidence8Indemnity26Insurance24Insurance Cover in Warlike Circumstances25Internment22LOTE Allowance16Meal Break Penalty Payment36Meals - Provisions of Meals In Flight15Overtime3No Extra Claims38Parking Facilities - Airports2Parties Bound19Parental Leave13Base Hourly Rate11Prevention and Settlement of Disputes33Rescheduling of Flight Attendants Away from Home Base and Unplanned Overnights21Route Pay22Sickness Away from Home Base37Superannuation14Team Leader and Higher Duties Allowances1Title35Training30Unplanned Overnights12Wage Increases and Additions39Wage and Additions Schedule32Work AllocationSchedule 1Availability Requirement

5. DEFINITIONS

5.1 Accommodation means accommodation of an appropriate standard provided for a Flight Attendant by the Company.

5.2 Airport Reserve is duty time spent by a Flight Attendant at the airport awaiting assignment to a flight or duty.

5.3 Association means the Flight Attendants' Association of Australia Domestic/Regional Division

5.4 Available Day (AV Day) is a 24-hour day (0000 to 2400 hours) without a pay credit. It occurs if a Flight Attendant who is advised at least seven days in advance that he/she is Not Required, requests to be placed on an AV Day.  A Flight Attendant may withdraw this AV Day status 48 hours prior to the commencement of the AV Day if no duty has been allocated to the Flight Attendant. 

5.5 Available Span (AV Span) is an assigned Fixed Standby of 12 hours e.g. 0600 to 1800 hours that attracts a 1:3 credit for pay purposes. 

5.6 Base is the geographical location as determined by the Company to which a Flight Attendant is domiciled.

5.7 Call out provisions apply to Flight Attendants and will be at the earliest possible time but not later than 120 minutes.

5.8 Calendar day is the 24-hour period between midnight and midnight.

5.9 Company is Maurice Alexander Management Pty Ltd 

5.10 Deadhead travel is all travel performed not associated with the actual operation of the aircraft, but required for the purpose of positioning for a tour of duty or returning to home base after a tour of duty. 

5.11 Domestic Duty is a period of continuous duty where all sectors are domestic sectors. 

5.12 Duty

Duty shall include:

5.12.1 All time spent as an operating Flight Attendant whilst in flight including time spent in flight deadheading on duty, or while accompanying invalids, elderly people or infants.

5.12.2 Time required for duty, including deadhead travel before and after each daily flight sequences, shall be not less than 45 minutes prior to departure for sign-on purposes and not less than 15 minutes after engine shut down for sign-off purposes.

5.12.3 Time spent on the ground between sign-on and sign-off.

5.12.4 Time spent on airport reserve duty.

5.12.5 Time spent in deadhead flying and associated ground time for the purpose of operating a later service, or time spent in deadhead flying and associated ground time for the purpose of returning to base after operating a service terminating short of base provided that credit under this paragraph shall cease if the Flight Attendant released for an overnight stop elects to return by a later service.

5.12.6 Time spent in emergency procedure practices, examinations and courses required by the Company to comply with necessary requirements.

5.12.7 Time spent where Flight Attendants are required to be interviewed by police or legal counsel or give evidence in civil or criminal courts for matters arising out of their duty/s at the direction of the Company.

5.13 Duty travel is deadhead travel for any purpose as determined by the Company.


5.14 Flight Attendant means a Casual employee trained and qualified as a Flight Attendant to a standard acceptable to the client airline.

5.15 Flight Hour is the time from engine start up to engine shut down.

5.16 Regional Duty is a period of continuous duty containing an international sector that is  categorised as a regional pairing for flight attendants in the client airline. 

5.17 Month is the roster month as notified by the client airline.

5.18 Minimum Payment and Accreditation A minimum of 4 hours payment and accreditation shall apply where a Flight Attendant's duty is cancelled upon arrival at their home base airport and no replacement duty has been allocated.

5.19 Misconnections are disruptions caused by:

5.19.1 Mechanical malfunction
5.19.2 Weather
5.19.3 Industrial Disputation

Where a Flight Attendant is delayed at departure Port, en route, or destination Port by weather, industrial disputation by parties other than Flight Attendants, or mechanical malfunction, the Flight Attendant(s) may be re-assigned duty.

5.20 Narrow-bodied aircraft is an aircraft with a single aisle.

5.21 Rest Period shall commence from sign-off time at the conclusion of duty.

5.22 Sign-off is the time of completion of all duties associated with a tour of duty and shall be not less than 15 minutes after the actual engine shut-down where flight duty, including deadhead, is involved.

5.23 Sign-on is the actual sign-on time for duty by an operating Flight Attendant where flight duty or deadhead is involved which shall be not less than 45 minutes prior to departure of the flight unless the Flight Attendant is required to go directly to the aircraft.

5.24 Tour of duty is the elapsed period between sign-on and sign-off at base designated by the Company.

5.25 Wide-bodied aircraft is an aircraft with more than one aisle.


6. COMMITMENTS BY THE PARTIES

6.1 The Company and Association are committed to working jointly on industrial matters.

6.2 The Company is committed to implementing this Agreement through co-operation and consultation with the Association.

6.3 The Company, the Association and Flight Attendants acknowledge the shared responsibility placed on them by this Agreement and agree to commit themselves to ensuring that the Agreement is complied with at all times.

6.4 Consistent with this Agreement, the parties are committed to ensuring the existing industrial relationship continues by maintaining the collective bargaining process through negotiations between the Company and the Association.

6.5 Consistent with the commitments contained within this clause, the Company will provide direct pay roll deductions for Association fees, without administration costs to the Flight Attendant or the Association.

7. INCIDENCE

7.1 This Agreement shall operate on and from certification until 31 January 2009.

7.2 For the purposes of this Agreement where reference is made to the term "Flight Attendant" it is understood and agreed that this shall mean a Casual Flight Attendant trained and qualified to an operational standard.

7.3 This Agreement is to be read in conjunction and interpreted with the Flight Attendant's appointment conditions and to the extent that there is any inconsistency between this Agreement and the appointment conditions, this Agreement shall prevail.

8. INDEMNITY

8.1 Nothing in this clause shall derogate the Company's right to terminate a Flight Attendant's daily hire or otherwise without notice in circumstances where the Company is not prepared to allow the Flight Attendant to continue to operate on that day.   Provided that the Flight Attendant shall be entitled to free travel home.

8.2 Any claim made by any member of the public, passenger or other person upon the Flight Attendant's estate as a result of any accident or happening, caused by the Flight Attendant when duly performing nominated duty, whether efficiently or, as may be subsequently determined, negligently, shall be accepted as a claim made against the client airline.  The client airline shall be solely responsible for all claims as a result of operations or by travel in their aircraft, except when such claim is arising out of loss, injury or damage caused wilfully by the Flight Attendant unless due to force majeure.

8.3 Notwithstanding anything herein contained to the contrary, the client airline shall have the right to request that a Flight Attendant not be offered work by the Company during an investigation into an accident or incident in which that Flight Attendant may have been involved.  The Company will comply with a request by the client airline immediately.

9. 
ANTI DISCRIMINATION

9.1 It is the intention of the respondents to this Agreement to achieve the principal object in section 3(j) of the Act through respecting and valuing the diversity of the work force by helping to prevent and eliminate discrimination on the basis of race, color, sex, sexual preference, age, physical or mental disability, marital status, family responsibilities, pregnancy, religion, political opinion, national extraction or social origin.

9.2 Accordingly, in fulfilling their obligations under the dispute avoidance and settling clause, the respondents must make every endeavour to ensure that neither the Agreement provisions nor their operation are directly or indirectly discriminatory in their effects.

9.3 Nothing in this clause is taken to affect:

9.3.1. any different treatment (or treatment having different effects) which is specifically exempted under the Commonwealth anti-discrimination legislation;

9.3.2. junior rates of pay, until 22 June 2000 or later date determined by the Commission in accordance with s.143(1E) of the Act;

9.3.3. an employee, Company or registered organization, pursuing matters of discrimination in any State or Federal jurisdiction, including by application to the Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission;

9.3.4. the exemptions in s.170CK(3) and (4) of the Act.


10. FACILITATIVE PROVISION

10.1 To meet the needs of the enterprise, the Company and the Association may agree upon the manner in which a particular clause of this Agreement is to operate at the workplace level in relation to particular employees.  Where agreement between the Company and the Association is reached, the Company may work employees at such times and under such circumstances as required provided that agreed arrangements will not result, on balance, in a reduction in the overall terms and conditions of employment of the affected employees provided for under the relevant award and will not contain objectionable or discriminatory provisions within the meaning of sub sections 298Z and 170LU(5) of the Workplace Relations Act 1996.

10.2 Without limiting the scope of clause 10.1, during the life of this Agreement the parties may review the administrative arrangements and conditions associated with flight attendant contactability and availability and make any required changes in accordance with the terms of this Facilitative Provision.


11. 
PREVENTION AND SETTLEMENT OF DISPUTES

11.1 In the event of a dispute, claim or grievance arising in the workplace the procedure will be as follows:-

11.1.1.  The flight attendant(s) and the flight attendant's supervisor will meet and confer on the matter.  The flight attendant(s) may be represented by another flight attendant and/or a representative of the Association to act on their behalf at any stage of these procedures.
11.1.2.  If the matter is initiated by flight attendant(s) the Company will investigate and reply to the flight attendant(s) and/or their representative within 72 hours.
11.1.3.  If the matter is still not resolved a joint conference between the Company and the Association must be held within fourteen days.
11.1.4.  If the matter is still not settled, it is open to the Company and the Association to agree that the matter may be referred to a mutually acceptable independent.  In such circumstances, the decision of the independent shall be final and binding on all parties.
11.2 If the Company is investigating an accident or incident in which the flight attendant(s) is involved, and where the investigation involves a member of the Association, the Association has the right to nominate a representative who may act as an observer and be present at all stages of the Company's investigation.
11.3 Until the matter is determined, work shall continue as instructed by the Company.  No party shall be prejudiced as to the final settlement by the continuation of work in accordance with this sub-clause.
11.4 The parties will at all times confer in good faith and without undue delay, and neither party will be prejudiced as to the settlement of the matter by the continuance of work.
	
12.	WAGE INCREASES AND ADDITIONS

12.1	Three increases will apply to base hourly rate for flight attendants operating under this agreement as contained in Clause 39 of this Agreement.  The operative dates are as follows:

1st Adjustment: For Hours that are accredited to the first fortnightly Pay cycle commencing on or after 1st March 2006.

2nd Adjustment: For Hours that are accredited to the first fortnightly Pay commencing on or after 31st January 2007.

3rd Adjustment: For Hours that are accredited to the fortnightly Pay cycle commencing on or after 31st January 2008.

Multi day Trips that encroach the new pay cycle Adjustment shall be paid for all hours at the old rate for that Tour of Duty.

12.2	Further adjustments to appropriate allowances and penalties are also set out at Clause 39.


13.	BASE HOURLY RATE

13.1	A Flight Attendant shall be paid a base hourly rate as set out in clause 39.  This base hourly rate of pay includes: 
13.1.1. a casual loading that is paid in lieu of any entitlement to paid annual leave, paid personal leave (including sick leave),  long service leave or payments for notice of termination or redundancy; and
13.1.2. expenses incurred during the course of a Flight Attendant's duty as follows:-
* Miscellaneous expenses.
* Grooming allowance.
13.1.3. A payment in lieu of shift penalties.
13.2 A Flight Attendant shall be required to perform duties within the limits of the Flight Attendant's skills, competence and training that may be peripheral or incidental to the work of a Flight Attendant.

13.3 Payment of monies shall occur once the client Airline has approved and processed necessary data and contractual requirements.

13.4 The Employee authorizes MAM to deduct from the pay or allowances due to the Employee any overpayment of salary or benefits made or any unauthorized expense paid by MAM on behalf of the Employee or any balance outstanding of any advance of monies made by or on behalf of MAM to the Employee.

14.	TEAM LEADER

14.1 A Flight Attendant operating as Team Leader (previously called second-in-charge) on a wide-bodied aircraft shall be paid an allowance at the rate set out in clause 39 of this Agreement.

14.2 A Flight Attendant operating as Team Leader (previously called second-in-charge) a narrow-bodied jet aircraft shall be paid an allowance at the rate set out in clause 39 of this Agreement.

15. OVERTIME

15.1 In addition to a Flight Attendant's base hourly rate, overtime shall accrue on a daily basis as follows:  

15.1.1 Overtime on 'domestic duty' will apply for all time worked in excess of 8 hours 30 minutes, at the rates set out in clause 39.  One overtime rate applies for hours worked in excess of 8 hours 30 minutes (Rate A) and up to 10 hours and a higher overtime rate (Rate B) applies for hours worked in excess of 10 hours.
15.1.2 Overtime on Regional Duty will apply for all time worked in excess of 12 hours at the rates set out in clause 39 (Rate B).  

16. MEAL BREAK PENALTY PAYMENT

16.1 A Flight Attendant must be paid a penalty on 'domestic duty' if the Flight Attendant has worked a daily duty period of six hours or more and has not been allowed a daily duty meal break of twenty minutes.
16.1.1 The administrative arrangements to be followed by a Flight Attendant to claim this penalty payment will be advised by the Company from time to time.
16.2 The penalty paid to the Flight Attendant must be calculated as follows:
16.2.1 if the Flight Attendant works for one hour or part of an hour beyond five hours and forty minutes until the commencement of a meal break of twenty minutes or until relieved from duty, the Flight Attendant must be paid an additional fifty percent of base rate of pay for one hour; or
16.2.2 if the Flight Attendant works for more than an hour beyond five hours and forty minutes until the commencement of a meal break of twenty minutes or until relieved from duty, the Flight Attendant must be paid an additional fifty percent of base rate of pay for such longer period as is actually worked.


17.	GROOMING AND UNIFORMS

17.1 All matters relating to Grooming and Uniforms have been fully compensated in the establishment of the base hourly rate.

17.2 Uniforms worn by Flight Attendants shall be provided on an adequate scale and replaced from time to time as may be required as a result of fair wear and tear on duty. The Flight Attendant shall wear such uniform at all times whilst on duty (except as provided in subclause 20.2 of Clause 20 - Confirmed Duty Travel) and shall keep the same in good order and condition, and shall at their own cost replace the same if such replacement shall become necessary other than as a result of fair wear and tear whilst on or travelling to or from duty. The Flight Attendant at the direction of the Company shall return uniforms.

17.3 Where a particular type of overcoat or handbag is prescribed by the client airline, Flight Attendants shall be provided with them.


18. ACCOMMODATION, DAILY TRAVELLING ALLOWANCE AND TRANSPORT, MEALS AND DISABILITY ALLOWANCE - AWAY FROM HOME BASE

18.1 Flight Attendants away from home base on flight duty, or other duty or when deadheading will be provided with accommodation and with transport to the hotel accommodation provided.

18.2 In addition to the base hourly rate a Flight Attendant will receive an amount of daily travel allowance, calculated from sign-on to sign off at home base at the rate set out in clause 39.

The Daily Travel Allowance will be reviewed during the life of the Agreement having regard to the relevant ATO determination. Any agreed change to the allowance will be operative from the First full Pay Cycle following agreement.

18.3 Disability Allowance

Flight Attendants shall be paid an allowance at the rates set out in clause 39 for each layover at the places named and agreed from time to time where agreed accommodation has not been provided.  The payment of the additional allowance shall not be deemed a permissive avoidance of that requirement.

18.4	Rest facilities during stopovers shall be provided in accordance with the following:

Stopover
Less than 1 hour	Not required
1 - 4 hours	Air-conditioned rest facilities as available and agreed
4.01 - 5 hours	Twin shared accommodation
Over 5 hours	Agreed accommodation in accordance with sub clause 18.1 herein.

18.5 Where a Flight Attendant advises upon notification of duty of their intention not to use accommodation arranged in accordance with sub clause 18.1 herein, the Flight Attendant shall receive an accommodation in lieu allowance at the rate set out in clause 39 for each occasion arranged accommodation is cancelled.

19.	PARENTAL LEAVE

Flight Attendants are entitled to Parental Leave under conditions that are no less favourable than those contained in the Workplace Relations Act 1996 as varied from time to time.

20.	DUTY TRAVEL

20.1 Where deadheading is associated with blocked duty, a Flight Attendant will be provided with pre-booked travel in economy class upgradeable to Business Class.

20.2 A Flight Attendant deadheading on the last sector before sign-off or whose deadheading is the sole duty for the day may travel out of uniform.

20.3 A Flight Attendant while on duty shall not deadhead travel on the flight deck.

21. 
ROUTE PAY

In addition to any other payments under this Agreement, a Flight Attendant on duty on services between Australia and foreign ports shall be paid an allowance (route pay) at the rate set out in clause 39.

22. LANGUAGE ALLOWANCE

22.1 A Flight Attendant will be paid a language allowance at the rate set out in clause 39 where the Flight Attendant demonstrates the required level of proficiency in a language or languages specified by the client airline.
22.2 Language allowance is paid on a pairing basis for those pairings where the language(s)is designated.  Only one allowance will be paid per person per pairing.
22.3 A Flight Attendant who is engaged as a language speaker will be allocated to priority language patterns where possible and will be required to maintain and uphold his/her level of language skills to the approved standard.  Language badges cannot be relinquished.
22.4 The language allowance rate may be reviewed by the parties during the life of this Agreement.

23. ABSENCE DUE TO ILLNESS

23.1 A Flight Attendant who is unable to perform a pre-allocated duty or meet his/her obligations in relation to an AV Day or an AV Span must notify Qantas Operations and the Company as soon as possible to allow for a replacement crewmember to be called out or allocated. Every reasonable effort must be made to contact Qantas Operations no less than 3 hours prior to Sign On or prior to the commencement of an AV Span as applicable.

23.1.1 A medical certificate may also be required where a Flight Attendant is not able to meet availability requirements, or is unavailable to be allocated duty due to illness;
23.1.2 A Medical Certificate is required containing the expected duration of time before the Flight Attendant will be available for duty. Doctor's Certificates should be forwarded directly to MAM Aviation Services Fax # 03 93709063 or Email operations@mam.net.au or as otherwise advised by the Company.
23.1.3 The Company may waive the requirement for a Medical Certificate in particular circumstances.  Where the requirement for a Medical Certificate is waived alternate arrangement will be agreed between the Company and the Flight Attendant for the Company to monitor the Flight Attendant's recovery and availability for duty.  
23.2  Should a Flight Attendant require medical attention whilst on duty, the Company shall use their best endeavours to arrange such medical attention.
23.3  A Flight Attendant who is unable to perform an allocated duty due to illness or injury away from home base must immediately advise Qantas Operations and the Company and attend a Qantas approved Medical Practitioner. Medical Clearance will be required prior to the Casual Flight Attendant returning to home base. 
23.3.1 If a Flight Attendant becomes ill whilst on duty away from base and is unable to perform further duties, duty hour payment will cease from that time (provided a three hour minimum payment for a duty shall apply).and the Flight Attendant shall be passengered by air to their base. 
23.3.2 If a Flight Attendant is unable to travel by air, the method of travel used to return a Flight Attendant on sick leave to home base shall be consistent with the Flight Attendant's state of health and shall be the best available standard including first class sleeping facilities where available. 
23.3.3 The Company and the Association must agree to travel arrangements under 23.3.2.
23.3.4 In circumstances where a Flight Attendant requires hospitalisation prior to returning to home base then Duty hour and DTA payment will cease. Further arrangements will be as agreed between the Company and the Association.
23.3.5 Reimbursement of reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the flight attendant due to illness away from home base will be considered by the Company.

24. INSURANCE COVER IN WARLIKE CIRCUMSTANCES

24.1 A Flight Attendant shall not be required to operate services into hostile or warlike areas, but may volunteer for such operations.

24.2 Volunteers shall be provided with insurance coverage no less favourable than applying to Flight Attendants in the client airline.

24.3 Should a Flight Attendant be killed in the course of duty with a client airline as a result of proven -

(a) 	Acts of sabotage

    	OR
   
(b) 	Acts of hijacking

then that Flight Attendant's estate shall benefit from the same insurance coverage no less favourable than applying to a Flight Attendant of the client airline.

25. INTERNMENT

25.1 A Flight Attendant who is posted missing or interned whilst on duty as a result of hostile action by a foreign nation whether war is declared or not, shall be entitled to the same benefits as a Flight Attendant of the client airline.

25.2 Where a Flight Attendant is entitled to pay in accordance with sub clause 25.1 herein it shall be paid to such person as is nominated by the Flight Attendant, and failing such nomination it shall be determined by the Company. 

26. INSURANCE

26.1 Aircraft Accident Insurance

A Flight Attendant shall be insured for Aircraft Accident Insurance for a death benefit to a level no less favourable than applying to a Flight Attendant of the client airline. Provided that such death occurs whilst flying or passengering on any aircraft in a manner recognized by the client airline and the Company as being associated with the duty of the Flight Attendant and the benefit shall be paid expeditiously to the Flight Attendant's estate.

26.1.1. This benefit is inclusive of Workers' Compensation and carrier Liability Insurance Entitlements but does not apply to Flight Attendants covered under Clause 25 (Internment) of this Agreement.

26.2 Flight Attendant Personal Effects - Loss or Damage 

The Company may reimburse a Flight Attendant for any loss or damage incurred to the personal effects (excluding money or jewellery) of a Flight Attendant while on duty where such loss or damage is due to an accident, or as otherwise.


27. FLIGHT ATTENDANT LOUNGES

27.1 Flight Attendants will be entitled to utilize lounge facilities as available at airports. 

28. UNPAID LEAVE OF ABSENCE

28.1 Unpaid leave of absence may be granted by the Company in special circumstances for a limited period.

29. DUTY HOUR LIMITATIONS

29.1 Flight Attendants shall be provided to the client airline on a daily hire, which can include a multi day sequence.
29.2 Flight Attendants shall have the same daily duty hour limitations/restrictions and rest requirements  as a Flight Attendant in the client airline as varied from time to time including any special arrangements agreed between the client airline and the Association in relation to those limitations, restrictions or requirements.

30. CONTRACT OF EMPLOYMENT AND FLIGHT ATTENDANT OBLIGATIONS

30.1 The Company shall offer the employee engagements on a casual basis as and when required by the Company.  Each engagement will be for a single period and will be subject to the terms of this Agreement.

30.1.1. Each casual engagement ceases automatically at the end of the engagement.

30.1.2. MAM may dismiss the Employee during any Engagement without notice if the Employee engages in serious misconduct or for other sufficient cause and the Employee will be paid up to the time of dismissal only.

30.2 A Flight Attendant's availability obligations, in accordance with Schedule 1 of this Agreement, will be advised in writing by the Company on the Flight Attendant's initial engagement or when subsequent changes to the Flight Attendant's category (that is category A, B or C as detailed in Schedule 1) are agreed between the Company and the Flight Attendant. It is a condition of employment that the Flight Attendant comply with the stipulated availability requirement.

30.3 The Flight Attendant designated base will be contained in the Flight Attendants letter of offer.  However, MAM may direct the Employee to perform duties at other locations in accordance with MAM's requirements from time to time. 

30.4 The client airline will provide day to day direction in relation to the specific duties of the Employee.

30.5 The Employee shall diligently and punctually perform all duties and tasks as required by the Company or its clients from time to time. 

30.6 The Employee must comply with Company policies and procedures as varied and advised from time to time, including compliance with policies issues by client airlines.  Policies include but are not limited to those relating to general conditions, equal employment opportunity, Occupational Health and Safety and drugs and alcohol.  

30.7 A Flight Attendant shall advise the Company in writing of his/her current residential address, email address and contact mobile telephone number. It is the Flight Attendants responsibility to have an operating email address, mobile phone contact and have advised MAM of their current postal address.

30.8 A Flight Attendant having been allocated and accepted a duty, shall be required to diligently and punctually perform the duty.

30.9 A Flight Attendant is responsible for maintaining a passport that has a minimum of 6 months validity; personal visas if required for operating overseas and residence permits if required.

30.10 A Flight Attendant must have successfully completed a course in Senior First Aid (includes CPR) and is responsible for maintaining their proficiency at that level.

30.11 A Flight Attendant, consistent with their signed undertaking, will maintain confidentiality to the business of the Company.

30.12 A flight attendant may not work as a flight attendant for another airline either directly or through a labour hire provider while employed under this Agreement without the written permission of MAM.

30.13 A Flight Attendant, upon separation from the Company for whatever reason, shall immediately return all property, cash advance and goods belonging to the Company and/or the client airline that may be in the Flight Attendant's possession.

30.14 The Company will be entitled to take all reasonable action to ensure the return of Company property and goods. It is a term of this Agreement that any outstanding monies due to the Flight Attendant shall not be paid until such time as all such goods have been returned.

31. CONTACT OBLIGATIONS

31.1 A Flight Attendant who has nominated to be placed on an AV Day and has not provided the required notice to withdraw this request is expected to be on call and available at the Airport for duty ASAP but no later than 120 minutes after call out on the day of operation. 

31.2 MAM Casual Flight Attendants are not paid while on an Available Day unless they are allocated and complete a duty as defined above. 

31.3 MAM Casual Flight Attendants who are on a Non Available Day can be contacted to receive a duty for a subsequent Available Day.

31.4 In a case where a duty is allocated on an advised Available Day, and declined by a MAM Casual Flight Attendant, then the individual may be withdrawn from further allocation of duties until MAM Aviation Services management has had communication and a satisfactory explanation from the individual Flight Attendant.

31.5 A Flight Attendant allocated an AV Span must contact Qantas Operations between 1700 and 2000 hours the day prior to the AV Span as an alternative duty may be available. If no alternative duty is assigned the Flight Attendant remains on the AV Span status. 

31.6 A Flight Attendant on AV Span must be contactable from the earlier of 
* the commencement of the span, or 
* two hours before the allocated duty commences
in order to sign on for an allocated duty from the commencement of the Span.  If contacted by Operations the Flight Attendant must be available at the Airport for duty ASAP but no later than 120 minutes after call out.

32. WORK ALLOCATION 

32.1 The Company and Qantas Operations shall assign duties as required to meet Qantas operational requirements.

32.2 MAM Casual Flight Attendants are not entitled to bid in Open Time.

32.3 No seniority arrangements apply to flight attendants employed under this Agreement.

32.4 During the term of this Agreement the parties will examine options to facilitate flight attendants swapping duties.


33. RESCHEDULING OF FLIGHT ATTENDANTS AWAY FROM BASE AND UNPLANNED OVERNIGHTS

33.1 Exchange of flights between Flight Attendants may be arranged by the Company when required because of duty hours or rest period limitations or misconnections at a port where Flight Attendants are based or not based.

33.2 In determining Flight Attendants to be involved in an exchange, the Company will select those Flight Attendants who can still operate their next flight/s, or, if no Flight Attendants are available under this provision, then the Flight Attendants who will incur the least disruption to their next flight/s, irrespective of the Flight Attendant's home base.

33.3 Notwithstanding the provisions of this Agreement, a Flight Attendant away from home base who is scheduled to deadhead to home base may be assigned to operate any one way flight back to home base. 

33.4 Any specific up-line reallocation that applies to the crew of the client airline under a dispensation from the Association will also apply to flight attendants under this Agreement.

33.5 Where an unplanned overnight at an away from home base port occurs:

33.5.1	On a Domestic Duty Flight Attendant shall be assigned to depart the away from home base port to their home base after having the required rest period applicable to that port.  This duty shall be the only duty for that day.

33.5.2	On a Regional Duty, a Flight Attendant shall be assigned a pattern as close as possible to the original pattern and shall be returned to their home base as close as possible to the conclusion of their original pattern.

33.5.3	Such return flights shall be in the direction of, but not through, their home base.

33.5.4	The Company shall be responsible for advising the Flight Attendant's contact number if the flight Attendant requests this to occur.

34. DRAFTING

34.1 A Flight Attendant, having signed on for a duty may be assigned an additional duty on the same day/s to meet unforeseen circumstances in the client airline.

The administrative arrangements and conditions for drafting to be the subject of agreement between the Company and the Association.

35. TRAINING

A Flight Attendant is required to attend organized training sessions.


36. PROVISIONS OF MEALS IN FLIGHT

36.1 Flight Attendants shall be provided with the same meals as Flight Attendants employed by the client airlines on the same services.

37. SUPERANNUATION

37.1 Superannuation contributions will be made by the Company on behalf of Flight Attendants to reflect legislative requirements.

37.2 It is a term of this Agreement that the superannuation contributions will be made to Superannuation Trust of Australia (STA) or other accredited superannuation plans as determined by the Company.


38. PARKING FACILITIES - AIRPORTS

A Flight Attendant will be provided with parking facilities at the Airport.


39. 
WAGE AND ADDITIONS SCHEDULE 

39.1 Monies shall be paid in arrears fortnightly by electronic transfer. Transfer of monies shall commence within three weeks from the conclusion of the fortnightly pay period.  










SCHEDULE 1
(This Schedule forms part of this Agreement)

AVAILABILITY REQUIREMENT 
(see Clause 29)


Category A Casual Flight Attendants

A Casual "A" Flight Attendant will be offered duty as and when it is available.

Category B Casual Flight Attendants


On the 1st of each month up to three (3) "specific dates" of required availability for the following calendar month will be advised to MAM Casual Flight Attendants via the MAM website www.mam.net.au.
 
Prior to the eighteenth (18th) day of each month MAM Casual Flight Attendants are to provide MAM, via the website, with an indication of their Availability for the month ahead.

This Availability must:

* Be a minimum of twelve (12) days with a maximum of six consecutive days;
* Will include "specific dates" nominated by the Company for that month; 
* Include at least two (2) blocks of three (3) days.

In order to achieve this requirement MAM Casual Flight Attendants must advise MAM Aviation Services of the days they will be Non-Available for duty. On all other days of the month the MAM Casual Flight Attendants will be presumed to be Available for Duty.

Exemption from these Availability requirements will be at the discretion of MAM. 

 During the operational month Non Available Days shall be for a period of 24 hours similar to a Duty Free Day, without buffers yet able to break a seven (7) day sequence of a Designated Day Off.


Allocation of Duty

a) Qantas Operations shall allocate duties to MAM Casual Flight Attendants seven (7) days in advance. MAM Casual Flight Attendants will also be able to view duties allocated to their Available Days for a period of seven (7) days in advance. During the first operational week of any month this may due to Month End Change Over (MECO) requirements not be achieved, however as much notice as possible will be given.

b) Allocated Duties may include:
* Flying Duty
* Ground Duty
* AV Span 

Where a day has been allocated as a "specific date" on which availability is required for the month, than duty will be allocated for that day.

     A MAM Casual Flight Attendant may also be advised at this time that if their   
     Availability is not required and they will be made Un-Available (UNAV).
     If the MAM Casual Flight Attendant wishes to remain "Available" for work to  
     be allocated they may elect to do so, however this will not attract a Fixed  
     Standby payment and payment will only be made if a duty is allocated and 
     Performed.

c) If a MAM Casual Flight Attendant is allocated a Fixed Standby the MAM Casual Flight Attendant will be contactable to Qantas Operations and immediately Available for duty. The period of Fixed Standby will be advised by Qantas Operations and it will not exceed 12 hours. The normal form of contact will be via phone unless otherwise agreed. Fixed Standby will be paid and accrue duty credit at a rate of one (1) hour per every three (3) hours on Fixed Standby. Payment will be in addition to any payment for Duty allocated after the commencement of the Fixed Standby. Duty credit hours for fixed Standby will count towards Duty Hour Limitations.

Any additional or different duties offered to a MAM Casual Flight Attendant after sign-on will be paid at the casual hourly rate of pay.



Category C Casual Flight Attendants

The Company will pre-allocate the flight attendant 20 days of duty per month, provided that a flight Attendant will normally not be allocated duty for one month in 12.  

The days of the month on which duties are allocated will be determined by the Company provided that a Flight Attendant may, using the procedure established by the Company, request that 3 consecutive days per month be free of duty and the Company will make reasonable efforts to comply with this request. 

The days of duty allocated for the month will be advised to the Flight Attendant before the commencement of the month.

A Flight Attendant may nominate an additional 5 days per month as AV days.

Allocated Duties may include:
* Flying Duty
* Ground Duty
* AV Span 







Page  1 of 21

