



AGREEMENT FOR ENGAGEMENT OF CONSULTANT - REAL ESTATE


THE CONSULTANT AGREES AS FOLLOWS:

1.	The Client engages the Consultant to provide Services for the Project named in the accompanying letter ("the letter").

2.	The Consultant shall perform the Services described in the letter and comply with all instructions given by the Client in respect of this Agreement, and the Client is not responsible for any costs resulting from any unauthorised act of the Consultant.

3.	The Consultant shall exercise a professional standard of skill, care and diligence in the performance of all services and other obligations under this Agreement. The Consultant must at all times be and remain licensed under the Real Estate and Business Agents Act 1978 and comply with the provisions of that Act.

4.	The Consultant shall promptly notify the Client of any matter which will or is likely to change, or has changed the scope or timing of the Services.

5. (a)	The Client shall make available to the Consultant all information reasonably necessary (the "Information") to fulfil the Client's requirements for the Services. However, the Consultant acknowledges the Information, and other information relevant to any of the Client's activities that the Consultant becomes aware of by virtue of its engagement by the Client, is confidential (the "Confidential Information") and must remain confidential, regardless of whether the Confidential Information has been or will be released into the public domain.  The Consultant may only use the Confidential Information for the purposes of this Agreement and may not disclose it to any person, other than the Consultant's officers and employees without the Client's prior written consent to each disclosure. The Consultant shall not, subject to 12 below make use of any Confidential Information to gain an advantage for himself or herself or someone else or to cause detriment to the Client. The Consultant acknowledges that the duty to maintain the Confidential Information in confidence shall continue after the services have been provided or the Agreement is terminated.  

	(b)	Subject to clause 5(c), in the event that the Confidential Information will or has been released into the public domain, the Consultant will, at the Client's expense, assist the Client in any action or conduct necessary to prevent dissemination or further dissemination of the Confidential Information.  If the release or pending release of the Confidential Information into the public domain is a consequence of the Consultant's act or omission or that of each or any of its employees, agents, or subcontractors, then the Consultant shall do all things considered by the Client to be necessary, at the Consultant's expense, to prevent dissemination or further dissemination of the Confidential Information.

	(c)	The Consultant may disclose Confidential Information to persons who have a need to know for the purposes of this Agreement (and only to the extent that each has a need to know) and have agreed in writing with the Consultant to comply with substantially the same obligations in respect of Confidential Information as those imposed on the Consultant under this Agreement (a "Direction").  The Consultant must ensure that each person to whom it discloses Confidential Information under this clause complies with its Direction and notify the Client of, and take all steps to prevent or stop, any suspected or actual breach of a Direction.  If the Consultant is required by law to disclose any Confidential Information to a third person (including, but not limited to, government) the Consultant must, before doing so, notify the Client and give the Client a reasonable opportunity to take any steps that the Client considers necessary to protect the confidentiality of that Information and notify the third person that the Confidential Information is confidential information of the Client.

6.	(a)		The Client shall pay to the Consultant fees and reimbursable expenses at the times and in the manner set out in the letter.

	(b)		The Consultant will give to the Client a tax invoice for the Services performed and for reimbursable expenses actually incurred at the times specified in the letter.  Subject to sub-clause 6(c) and unless otherwise agreed, the Client shall pay the full amount owing in respect of each account at settlement of the sale of the properties.

(c) If the Client disputes the amount claimed in an account submitted by the Consultant, the Client shall notify the Consultant in writing within 14 days.  If the parties are unable to reach agreement within 14 days of the Client's notice, the dispute may be determined at the instigation of either party in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement relating to disputes.

(d) The Client may also seek assistance from the Real Estate and Business Agents Supervisory Board in relation to disputes as to the fees to be received by the Consultant.

7.	Goods and Services Tax
Consideration under this contract includes full provision for liabilities of the supplier incurred as a result of the introduction of the goods and services tax (GST).

8.	The Consultant must at the Consultant's own expense effect and maintain throughout the term of this Agreement adequate public liability insurance for an amount of not less than $20,000,000, workers compensation insurance in compliance with all applicable legislation and professional indemnity insurance with minimum cover of at least $5,000,000 with insurers approved by the Client and on terms and conditions approved by the Client.  Prior to signing of the Agreement and at any time thereafter on the request of the Client the Consultant must produce evidence of such insurances.

9.	The Consultant will indemnify and keep indemnified the Client against any loss, liability, cost or expense arising out of their provision of the services.

10.	The Consultant shall have the power to act as the Client's agent in emergency situations where danger to persons or damage to the property or works appears imminent.

11.	(a)	All trade marks, copyrights, patents, photographs, reports, notes, specifications, drawings, designs, statistics, models and other information or data compiled or prepared in connection with this Agreement (the "Intellectual Property") shall be the Client's property. 

	(b)	For the purposes of section 35 of the Copyright Act 1968 (Cth), the parties agree that any copyright created by the Consultant, its officers or employees under this Agreement will be the Client's property.  Furthermore in regard to photographs, the Client's copyright in a photograph continues to subsist until the expiration of 50 years after the expiration of the calendar year in which it was taken.
	(c)	Upon the Client's request, the Consultant agrees to immediately execute, or take all necessary steps to ensure execution by any third party to this Agreement, any document necessary to assign the Intellectual Property to the Client, whether created or prepared by the Consultant or any third party to this Agreement.  In the event that ownership of any Intellectual Property is deemed not to have passed until the execution of any necessary documents, the Consultant hereby grants an irrevocable, royalty free licence to the Client to use the Intellectual Property for any purpose.

	(d)	This clause does not affect the intellectual property rights the Consultant had in existence prior to the date of engagement of the Consultant, as set out in Schedule 1.

12.	The Consultant will not and shall ensure that its employees do not disclose or make public any information concerning the operations or activities of the Client acquired or obtained in the course of the performance of the Services.

13.	If the Client and the Consultant are in dispute regarding any matter arising out of this Agreement, then either party may, by notice in writing served on the other, request that such dispute be resolved by expert determination of an independent third party acceptable to both parties.  If the parties do not agree to such determination within 7 days from the date of service of the notice then the dispute shall be determined by arbitration, as provided by clause 15. If the parties do agree to a determination the independent third party shall act as an expert and not an arbitrator, and his decision shall be final and binding upon the parties.	

14.	Disputes under or arising out of this Agreement may be referred by either party to arbitration. The arbitrator shall be a person appointed by the President, for the time being of the Institute of Arbitrators Australia. The provisions of the Commercial Arbitration Act 1985 shall apply to such arbitration.

15.	The costs of any expert determination or arbitration proceedings pursuant to this Agreement shall be borne by the parties as the expert or arbitrator may direct.


16.	Irrespective of any other provision in this Agreement, the Client may terminate this Agreement by notice to the Consultant if:

	(a)	The Consultant shall have failed to remedy a breach of this Agreement within 7 days from the receipt of a written notice from the Client specifying the breach and requiring that the same be remedied.

	(b)	Any event or circumstances shall have occurred which, in the reasonable opinion of the Client, make it unlikely that the Services will be completed by the Consultant in accordance with this Agreement.

	(c)	The Client serves a notice on the Consultant requiring that the Agreement be terminated on a date specified in the notice being not less than 30 days from the date of the notice.

	(d)	The Consultant fails, refuses or neglects to comply with any instruction or direction given to it by the Client pursuant to this Agreement.

17.	Nothing in clause 17 shall be taken as in any way restricting any right of the Client to claim and institute proceedings for damages arising out of any breach of this Agreement by the Consultant.

18.	The Client may at any time, by notice in writing to the Consultant, reduce, curtail or discontinue any or all Services described in the letter.  Upon such notice being given, the Consultant shall cease or reduce work according to the tenor of the notice and shall immediately do everything possible to mitigate losses as a result of such reduction, curtailment or discontinuance.

19.	The Consultant may, by notice in writing served on the Client, terminate the consultant's obligations under this Agreement if the client is in breach of the provisions of clause 6 and the breach has not been remedied within 28 days of the service by the Consultant on the Client of a notice requiring the breach to be remedied.

20.	The Consultant shall not assign, sublet or transfer any right or obligation under this Agreement without the prior written consent of the Client.

21.	If circumstances arise which require expertise outside the field of practice of the Consultant, the Consultant may, with the prior written approval of the Client, engage an appropriate Sub-Consultant to perform relevant Services under this Agreement.  The Consultant shall be responsible for the engagement of and payment for any Services provided by Sub-Consultants, and shall accept responsibility for those Services.

22. If the Consultant shall for any reason fail to perform any obligations under this Agreement, the Client may (without prejudice to any right of action or any other rights that the Client may have in respect of such failure) be entitled to have such unperformed works carried out at the expense of the Consultant by any other person.

23.	During the term of this Agreement, the Consultant will not provide services to any party (other than the Client) which, in the Client's opinion, presents a conflict of interest, without the prior written consent of the Client. 


BY SIGNING THE LETTER OF ENGAGEMENT, THE CONSULTANT AGREES TO THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS CITED ABOVE.



Version 1 of 1, dated 7 March 2007

Document2
Version 23 February 2007

