








Contract for CLEANING & MAINTENANCE SERVICES


Contract for Services between


(Subcontractor)
COMPANY:		

NAME:			

ADDRESS:		

ABN:			

AND

(Principal):	HOLISTIC FACILITY SERVICES P/L 

ABN:	 		261 225 524 34






This Contract for Services is between:

(Contractor):	(Name):	

(Address): 

(ABN):      	 

AND

(Principal) 	HOLISTIC SERVICES P/L 
ABN 		26 122 552 434
of 		PO Box 276, Hoxton Park NSW Australia 2171 

Background
A. The Principal carries on the business in which it needs to engage the services of the Contractor ("Principal's business").
B. The Contractor carries on a business suitable to carry out its contractual duties under this agreement.
C. The Contractor seeks to provide services to the Principal's business upon the terms of this agreement.

This Agreement states:
1. What is the Contractor to do?
The Contractor performs such Work from the Start Date as is assigned to it from time to time by the Principal in a skilful, expeditious and professional manner for the Remuneration. The Contractor warrants that it is duly qualified to and will perform the Work in a careful, skilful, diligent and efficient manner.

2. Who maintains the Contractor's equipment?
Where the Contractor is required to provide or utilise equipment, such equipment is to be suitable for the Work and is maintained by the Contractor in good working condition.

3. Are the Contractor's employees and assigns also bound?
A reference to a party to this agreement includes its agents, employees and assigns.

4. Who controls the Contractor and its employees?
The Contractor supplies the Work as an independent contractor. The Contractor is not in partnership, or in a joint venture or an employee, servant or agent of the Principal.

Nothing in this agreement is construed as to constitute the Principal to be an employer and the Contractor (or its own employees and agents) to be an employee. It is the express intention of the parties that such a relationship is denied. Nothing in this agreement is construed as to constitute either party to be the agent of the other. It
is the express intention of the parties that such a relationship is denied. Upon written notice to the Contractor, the Principal can demand that any of the Contractor's employees and agents cease to perform the Work. In such event the Contractor provides the services of an alternative person. The parties acknowledge that the Contractor only (not the Principal):

i. Is able to delegate duties for the contracted services.

ii. Is required to make its own insurance and tax payment arrangements.

iii. Controls and is responsible for itself and its employees. If any legislation imposes an employer/employee obligation onto the Principal then the Contractor carries out all such obligations and pays all such costs and indemnifies and holds the Principal harmless. Further, the Contractor states that it has the necessary insurances (such as Workers Compensation and Public Liability) for itself and any of its employees and sub-contractors connected with the Principal's business. The Contractor provides evidence of such insurance prior to the commencement of this Agreement.  The Contractor shall supply evidence of cover of Workers Compensation and Public Liability. Further the Contractor indemnifies the Principal and pays any additional payroll tax payable because of grouping.

5. What does the Contractor keep confidential?
Except as authorised by the Principal in writing or required by the Contractor's performance of the Work, the Contractor does not (directly or indirectly) reveal to any third party such confidential information (reasonably regarded as confidential, being information not in the public domain or known to the Principal's competitors):

i.   technical data, research and development information, any trade secret, confidential dealing, operation or process.
ii.   any information concerning the organisation, business, finances, transactions or affairs of the:

a.   business records, client records, information, notes, products, know how, trade secrets, other data and
secret information
    b.   Principal or any related corporation or associate of the Principal
    c.   names and details of clients, suppliers and agents or employees and employees details
    d.   clients of any related corporation or associate of the Principal
e.   accounting procedures or financial information(collective "Confidential Information") The Contractor keeps with complete secrecy all Confidential Information. 

The Contractor does not use (or attempt to use) any Confidential Information in any manner. The Contractor does not use (or attempt to use) any Confidential Information that may (directly or indirectly) cause injury to the Principal (or the Principal's business) or which may be likely to do so. This restriction continues after the Work is completed. This restriction continues after this agreement terminates.

The Principal and its agents agree to keep confidential the Contractors Confidential Information ("Contractors Confidential Information") being all information relating to the current or future business interests, methodology or affairs of the Contractor and its related parties or any person or entity with which it deals or is concerned with, including, without limitation, all:

i.   technical data;
ii.  research and development information;
iii. business records, compliance processes and procedures, training processes and procedures, copyright   documents, electronic communications or records and software supplied under the agreement, client records, information, notes, products, know how, trade secrets, or other data;
iv. accounting procedures or financial information;
v.  names and details of clients, suppliers and agents;
vi. employee details; and
vii. secret information; reasonably regarded as confidential, being information not in the public domain to the  Contractor's competitors.
6.  When are documents and records returned to the Principal?
All records and documents (paper, electronic or otherwise) and copies and extracts made or acquired by the Contractor, in the course of performing the Work, are the Principal's property. The Contractor collects up and returns such records and documents to the Principal when the agreement is terminated or upon the Principal's demand.

7. How does the Contractor protect the Principal?
The Contractor:
i.   Acts, with the utmost good faith in all of its dealings with the Principal.
ii.  Does not intentionally do anything which is or may be harmful to the Principal.
iii. Reports promptly all reasonable information, explanations and advice which the Principal requires or as to  which the Principal should properly be informed of.

The Contractor is responsible for and indemnifies the Principal against liability for all loss, damage or injury to persons or property caused by the Contractor. The amount of such claims, damages, costs and expenses payable, suffered or incurred by the Principal for any such loss, damage or injury is made good at the Contractor's expense. Such loss, damage or injury is deducted from the value of Remuneration due or becoming due to the Contractor.

The Contractor's primary duty is to carry out the business the Contractor has undertaken, or to inform the Principal promptly if it is impossible to do so. Any instruction as to the manner in which the business is to be carried out must be complied with strictly. The Contractor has no discretion to disregard such instructions, even though the Contractor acts in good faith and in the interest of the Principal.

Where no definite instructions have been given, or where the Contractor's authority allows discretion, the Contractor must be guided by the honest exercise of judgement and the interests of the Principal. A professional Contractor must follow the ordinary course of its business, which includes the ordinary course of any previous business between the Principal and the Contractor.

The Contractor shall use any information obtained by reason of the contract solely for the purpose of this agreement.

A Contractor is under a duty to employ any materials and information of or for the Principal by reason of the agreement solely for the purpose of the agreement, and not in any manner inconsistent with good faith. The Contractor may not divulge them to third parties, or use them in unfair competition with the Principal. A Contractor who acts in breach of duty is liable to make an account of profits and to render equitable compensation.

A Contractor should not act for a second principal in a manner which may result in a conflict of duties. A Contractor is permitted to place a conflict of duty behind personal interests if, and only if, the Contractor has first made to the principal full written disclosure of the exact nature of the interests. And further the Principal has so assented in writing. It is insufficient merely to disclose that the Contractor has an interest.

A Contractor should only purport to bind the Principal when the Contractor is duly authorised to do so. Unless the terms of the Contractor's appointment permit, the Contractor must contract with third parties in the principal's name and not in the Contractor's own name (unless the contractor is a factor, who has implied authority to contract with third parties in his or her own name).

The Contractor is responsible to the Principal for losses occasioned by want of proper care, skill or diligence in the carrying out of its duties. This is even where the principal may have been negligent in not discovering the Contractor's breach of duty. A Contractor for reward is bound to exercise a higher standard of care, skill, or diligence than a gratuitous contractor, and the standard required in such cases is not merely that which the Contractor in fact possesses, but that which is reasonably necessary for the due performance of the Contractor's undertaking.

A Contractor keeps accurate accounts of all transactions and be prepared at all times to produce them to the Principal. All documents and books relating to the Principal's business must be produced to the Principal (or the Principal's nominee) on demand.







The terms of a Contractor's appointment will determine whether money entrusted to or received by the Contractor on the Principal's behalf must be kept separate or may be mixed with the Contractor's own money. In the former case, the Contractor will be a trustee; in the latter, a debtor. In the case of debtor an appropriate interest rate is agreed, from time to time, between the parties.

A Contractor employed to carry out any transaction which involves receiving a payment on the Principal's behalf must not compromise the rights of the Principal, or part with the Principal's property, until payment is received. This is unless otherwise authorised. In the absence of instructions or of contrary usage, payment is received in cash or bank cheque. All moneys received on the Principal's behalf is paid over or accounted for upon request, unless the Contractor has for some lawful reason repaid them to the person from whom the Contractor received them. It is immaterial if the relevant transaction was void or illegal, provided the contract itself is not illegal. A 
Contractor cannot retain moneys against the Principal for a debt due to the Contractor from the person paying them, or because of some claim to the moneys by a third person.

8.  Keys
(a)	At the commencement of the work at the site the Principal shall make available a set of keys for the site to the Contractor;

(b)	The Contractor shall not part with possession of those keys to a third party (not being an employee or agent of the Contractor hired to carry out the cleaning);

(c)	The Contractor shall on obtaining from the Principal a key for it's client site sign a Security Key Allocation Form in the format attached to this Agreement;

(d)	The Contractor shall not copy any key for the site;

(e)	Upon termination of this Agreement the keys shall be returned immediately to the Principal;

(f)	In the event that the Contractor, it's servants or agents perform the services agreed the Contractor shall notify the Principal and make the keys available to the Principal for the purpose of arranging another cleaner to perform those services; and 
(g)	Upon the return of the keys pursuant to (a) or (b) hereof the Principal and Contractor shall sign the Security Key Return Form in the format attached to this Agreement.







9.	Guarantee
The Guarantors covenant and agree with the Principal as follows:-

(a)	The Guarantors hereby guarantee to the Principal the due and punctual performance and observance by the Contractor, its servants and agents, of all the obligations herein contained or required on the part of the Contractor to be performed and observed; 

(b)	The Guarantors hereby indemnify and keep indemnified the Principal from and against all damage, loss, costs and expenses which the Principal might suffer or incur consequent upon and arising directly or indirectly out of any breach or non observance by the Contractor of any of the obligations or conditions contained in this Agreement or implied on the part of the Contractor to be performed or observed and the Guarantors shall remain liable notwithstanding that as a consequence of such breach or non observance that the Contractor may be wound up;

(c)	The liability of the Guarantors hereunder shall not be affected by the granting of time or other indulgences or concessions to the Contractor.

(d)	Until the principal shall have received its entitlements from the Contractor pursuant to this clause the Guarantors shall not be entitled to claim or receive the benefit on any winding up or liquidation of the Contractor;
	
(e)	This Guarantee and Indemnity are to remain in full force and effect until the due performance and observance of the Contractor of all the obligations and conditions in accordance with this Agreement; and 

(f)	The liability of the Guarantors pursuant to this Agreement shall be joint and several.

10.	Termination
(a)     in the event that this Agreement is terminated pursuant to Clause 13 or Clause 14 of this Agreement the Contractor shall not contact the Principal's client by any means without the written consent of the Principal; 

(b)	The Contractor shall not agitate other Contractors with a view to disrupting the business of the Principal; and

(c)	This Clause shall not merge on completion.

11.	Training Manual and Occupational Health and Safety
(a)	The Contractor acknowledges that the Principal has given to him/her/it a photocopy of the training manual
and its Occupational Health and Safety Policy; and 

(b)	The Contractor shall familiarise himself/herself/itself with these guides and endeavour to comply with them as closely as possible.

12. Is the Contractor bound by the law?
The Contractor complies at its own cost and expense with all legislation, regulations, by-laws, ordinances or orders as it affects or applies to the Contractor or the Works performed by the Contractor. Further, the Contractor indemnifies the Principal from and against all actions, costs, charges, claims and demands arising from the Contractor's non-compliance.










13. How much notice is needed to end this agreement?
This agreement continues in force until the Termination Date, or by either party giving to the other one month's notice in writing.

14. Can the Principal end the agreement without notice?
The Principal may determine this agreement at any time and without prior notice. This is the case if the Contractor is guilty of any dishonesty, serious misconduct or serious neglect of duty. This is also the case if the Contractor is in breach of any of the terms of this agreement, or refuses, to comply with any reasonable instructions or directions given by the Principal. This is also the case if the Principal loses its Contract with its Supplier.
15. What happens if one of the parties becomes insolvent?
Either party may end the agreement in writing (without notice) if the other party suffers any of the following:
i. For a corporation:
a. 	an application is made to a court for an order or an order is made that the
     corporation can be wound up
b. 	an application is made to a court for an order appointing a liquidator or provisional liquidator in respect of that corporation or one of them is appointed, whether or not under an order
c. 	a meeting is convened or a resolution is passed to appoint an administrator for that corporation
d.	the corporation proposes or enters into an agreement of company arrangement with or for the benefit of all or any class of its creditors without the consent of the other party
e. 	a resolution is passed to wind up or dissolve that corporation (f) the corporation is dissolved
f. 	the corporation is or becomes insolvent within the meaning of that expression in subsection 95A(2) of the Corporations Law or any of the events mentioned in paragraphs (a) to (f) inclusive of subsection 459C(2) of the Corporations Law occurs in respect of the corporation
g. 	the appointment of an administrator in respect of that corporation or a receiver or manager of the whole part of the assets and undertaking of the corporation

ii. 	For an individual:
a. 	the individual commits an act of bankruptcy
b. 	the individual proposes or enters into an agreement of arrangement, agreement of assignment or an assignment for the benefit of its creditors or any class of creditors

16. Can the Contractor assign its rights under this agreement?
The Contractor may not assign its rights under this agreement without the Principal's prior written consent.

17. How can this agreement be varied?
A variation of this agreement must be in writing and signed by all parties to the agreement.

18. Have the parties agreed to anything outside of this agreement?
This agreement is the entire agreement for contract for service between the Principal and Contractor.

19. What happens if part of this agreement is unenforceable?
If the whole or part of a provision of this agreement is held to be invalid or unenforceable in any jurisdiction it is severed from this agreement. It is severed to the extent of such invalidity or unenforceability. However, this does not affect the validity and enforceability of the remainder of the agreement.





20. How can one party give notice to the other?
Any notice given for any purpose under this agreement is served on the Contractor or Principal if delivered or posted to the respective addresses.

21. What law applies to the agreement?
This agreement is governed and construed according to the laws of the state in which the Contractor resides in, as evidenced by the Contractor's address in this agreement. Each party irrevocably submits unconditionally to that jurisdiction and of all courts competent to hear appeals for any legal action suit of proceeding arising from this agreement.

22. General
The Contractor and its agents, employees, nominees, assignees shall be restrained from contracting any maintenance and/or cleaning work to any clients of the Principal without the prior consent of the Principal within twelve (12) calendar months after the termination of this agreement.

The Contractor must ensure that its duties are complied with and ensure the prompt and timely service of all assigned contracted sites as listed in the Schedule. Should the Principal suffer any loss of income or business due to the negligence of the Contractor or its assignees then the Contractor will be held liable for all loss of income.

SCHEDULE

Contract Rate
Remuneration is $____________________________per week/month/year (flat rate)

Contracted Service Site
The Site for which the contractor is contracted to service is:

Site 
Contract Term
This contract is for the period of   (3) (6) (9) months, (1) year

This contract can be terminated anytime by Holistic Cleaning Services on the condition of BREACH OF CONTRACT OR AGREEMENT OR BREACH OF HOLISTIC CLEANING SERVICES POLICIES.


Reference Schedule
Item
1. Start Date:    

2. Work
To undertake the following tasks and services as are assigned to the Contractor from time to time by the Principal, its agents or employees:

(a) plant and equipment and telephone services ('plant and equipment'):
(b) secretarial, administrative and other staff ('staff');
(c) stationery and other consumables ('consumables');
(d) premises ('premises');
(e) debt collection services ('debt collection services'); and
(f) such other facilities and services as the parties may agree.

By way of remuneration for the Work from time to time provided by the Contractor, the Principal pays to the Contractor the following amounts for each year ended 30 June:

(a) for providing that part of the plant and equipment which is obtained on hire purchase or is owned by the Contractor - an amount equal to a per cent figure as agreed from time of the amount which the Contractor is entitled to claim by way of depreciation for the plant and equipment during that year under the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 (Cwth), or such other amount as the parties may agree upon from time to time;

(b) for providing that part of the plant and equipment other than that referred to in
paragraph (a) - an amount equal to the total cost incurred by the Contractor for that part of the plant and equipment ('plant and equipment expenses') plus a per cent figure as agreed by the parties from time to time of the plant and equipment expenses, or such other amount as the parties may agree upon from time to time;




(c) for providing staff - subject to paragraph (d), an amount equal to the total cost of wages and salaries paid to the staff by the Contractor ('staff salaries') plus per cent figure, as a agreed from time to time, of the staff salaries, or such other amount as the parties may agree upon from time to time;

(d) for providing staff - an additional amount equal to the total expenses incurred by the Contractor for the staff for payroll tax, annual and long service leave, workers
compensation, salary continuance insurance, superannuation contributions, training and any other expenses paid for the staff, other than salaries or wages ('staff on costs') plus a per cent of the staff on costs as the parties agree upon from time to time;

(e) for providing consumables - an amount equal to the total expenses incurred by the
Contractor for the consumables ('consumables expenses') plus a per cent figure as agreed from time to time of the consumables expenses, or such other amount as the parties may agree upon from time to time;

(f) for the providing of the premises which are leased by the trustee from time to time - an amount equal to the total cost of lease payments incurred by the Contractor for the premises ('premises expenses') plus a per cent figure as agreed from time to time of the premises expenses, or such other amount as the parties may agree upon from time to time;

(g) for providing debt collection services for debts collected which are outstanding more than 1 day beyond the Principals normal terms of trade an amount equal to a per cent of debts collected, as agreed, or such other amount as the parties may agree upon from time to time;

(h) for the balance of the services - such amount as the parties agree upon from time to time.

3. Remuneration
As set out, in the above Work. The contract rate will be as set out in this agreement and as agreed from time to time per site.

4. Mode of Payment
The Remuneration is to be paid into Contractors' nominated Bank account. The payments are made in arrears on the 15th of the next calendar month. The parties can agree to defer the Principal's payment if and only if, the Contractor allows the Principal to do so on an interest rate acceptable to both parties.

5. Termination Date
The date of termination of this contract is not specified. 








SIGNED as an agreement on the _______ day of ____________________ 200___

AS SUBCONTRACTOR (COMPANY NAME):  

ABN:            

NAME


SIGNED by ___________________________________________________ 




SIGNED as an agreement on the _______ day of _____________________ 200___



AS PRINCIPAL: SIGNED by Sam Saman ________________________________




for and on behalf of HOLISTIC Services Pty Ltd, ABN 26 122 552 434
Board of Direction pursuant to Section 127 Of the Corporations Act 2000




Confidential		 Page 1
Ph: 9824-0008 Fax: 9824-0038 or ph: 1300 550 629   Fax: 1300 550 639
PO Box 296 Hoxton Park NSW 2171www.holisticcleaning.com.au

