qDispute Resolution Agreement


Table of contents
Parties	1
Background	1
Operative provisions	1
1	Engagement of DRP Member	1
2	Payment of the DRP Member	1
3	GST	2
4	Decisions of the Dispute Resolution Panel	2
5	Failure to comply with requirements or determinations	3
6	Publication of determination	3
7	Release and Indemnity	3
8	Insurance	3
9	Accession of other parties	4
10	Conflicts of interest	4
11	General provisions	4
Entire agreement	4
Execution of separate documents	4
Further acts	4
Governing law and jurisdiction	5
No agency or partnership	5
No authority to act	5
Severability	5
Variation	5
Waiver	5
12	Definitions and interpretation	6
Definitions	6
Interpretation	6
Execution	8

Parties
The persons referred to in clause 1 of Schedule 1 (the DRP Members)
AND
The persons referred to in clause 2 of Schedule 1 (the Code Participants)
AND
The person referred to in clause 3 of Schedule 1 (the NECA Adviser)
Background
A	The Code Participants are parties to a Dispute within the meaning of clause 8.2 of the Code.
B	The Dispute has, in accordance with clause 8.2.6A of the Code, been referred to the Dispute Resolution Panel for resolution.
C	In order to facilitate the resolution of the Dispute by the Dispute Resolution Panel, the Code Participants wish to enter into this Agreement with each of the DRP Members setting out the terms and conditions upon which each DRP Member is engaged to hear and determine the Dispute.
Operative provisions
1 Engagement of DRP Members
1.1 Each Code Participant engages each DRP Member to constitute a Dispute Resolution Panel to hear and determine the Dispute.  
1.2 Each DRP Member accepts that engagement.
1.3 Each DRP Member agrees to hear and determine the Dispute: 
1.3.1 in accordance with the Code; and 
1.3.2 on the terms and conditions set out in this Agreement.
2 Payment of Fees and Expenses
2.1 Subject to clause 10.3.2, the Code Participants are liable for the Fees and Expenses of the DRP Members set out in clause 1 of Schedule 1.   These may be invoiced as directed by the DRP.
2.2 The Code Participants are liable for the Fees and Expenses of the NECA Adviser set out in clause 3 of Schedule 1. 
2.3 The Code Participants are liable for the Fees and Expenses in the respective shares for which they are liable for the costs of the Dispute Resolution Panel as apportioned in accordance with clause 8.2.8 of the Code. 
2.4 Where the time required to hear and determine the Dispute exceeds one month, the DRP Members and the NECA Adviser are entitled to be paid on a monthly basis and may render an invoice accordingly.
2.5 The NECA Advisor may, in his or her discretion, raise an invoice for a Code Participant based on a reasonable pre-estimate of the Fees and Expenses for the dispute, or any stage of the dispute.  
2.6 The fees payable to a DRP member or the NECA Advisor may include a fee for cancellation of a hearing where a Code Participant has:
2.6.1 failed to attend the hearing or part of hearing of the dispute; and
2.6.2 failed to give at least one week's notice of its intention not to attend the hearing or part of the hearing of the dispute.
2.7 The Code Participants must pay all invoices within 30 days.
3 GST
3.1 A party must pay GST on a Taxable Supply made to it under this Agreement, in addition to any Consideration (excluding GST) that is payable for that Taxable Supply.  
3.2 A party must pay GST on a Taxable Supply made to it under this Agreement at the same time and in the same way as it is required to pay the Consideration for the Taxable Supply provided that a tax invoice is issued in accordance with Clause 3.3.
3.3 A party making a Taxable Supply to another party under this Agreement must issue a Tax Invoice to the other party, setting out the amount of the GST payable by that other party.
3.4 In this clause, 'Consideration', 'GST', 'Input Tax Credit', 'Taxable Supply' and 'Tax Invoice' have the meanings attributed to those terms in A New Tax System (Goods and Services Tax) Act 1999.
4 Decisions of the Dispute Resolution Panel
4.1 Each DRP Member must use his or her best endeavours to ensure that the Dispute Resolution Panel determines the Dispute as quickly as possible and, in any case within the time frames specified in the Code or such other times frames as are agreed in accordance with the Code.
5 Failure to comply with requirements or determinations 
5.1 The parties acknowledge that the failure by a Code Participant to comply with a requirement or determination of the Dispute Resolution Panel:
5.1.1 does not constitute a breach of this Agreement; but 
5.1.2 is a breach of the Code that may be referred to NECA as an alleged breach of the Code in accordance with the National Electricity Law.
6 Publication of determination
6.1 Each DRP Member: 
6.1.1 jointly owns with other members of the Dispute Resolution Panel, all Intellectual Property rights arising out of any determination made by the Dispute Resolution Panel; and
6.1.2 gives the Code Participants, NECA and the Adviser an unlimited and perpetual licence to use, disclose, publish or copy the determination.
7 Release and Indemnity
7.1 Each Code Participant releases and indemnifies each DRP Member in relation to any loss, damage or liability that the DRP Member suffers or incurs, or would, but for this release and indemnity, suffer or incur, as a consequence of any act or omission done in good faith in connection with the Dispute.
8 Insurance
8.1 Each DRP Member is responsible for obtaining any  insurance which he or she may consider desirable in respect of his or her role and functions under this Agreement, including without limitation insurance in respect of:
8.1.1 professional indemnity;
8.1.2 public liability; and
8.1.3 workers compensation.
8.2 Each DRP Member acknowledges that, except as provided in clause 7 of this Agreement, neither the Code Participants, the Adviser nor NECA is required to provide any insurance for or indemnity in favour of a DRP Member.
9 Accession of other parties
9.1 Another Code Participant may become a party to this Agreement if that other Code Participant and the parties to this Agreement execute a deed of accession.
10 Conflicts of interest
10.1 In this clause 10 "conflict of interest" means an interest of a DRP Member which may conflict, or which may reasonably be seen to conflict, with the Member's obligation to impartially resolve the dispute.
10.2 Each DRP Member must immediately advise each Code Participant and the Adviser if the DRP Member becomes aware that the DRP Member has a conflict of interest.
10.3 Except with the consent of each Code Participant and the NECA Adviser, a DRP Member:
10.3.1 must not continue to hear and determine a dispute if the DRP Member has a conflict of interest; and
10.3.2 is not entitled to be paid fees in respect of any time spent hearing and determining the dispute that occurs after the DRP Member became aware, or ought reasonably to have become aware, of the conflict of interest.
11 General provisions
Entire agreement
11.1 This Agreement contains everything the parties have agreed on in relation to the matters it deals with.  
11.2 No party can rely on an earlier agreement, or anything said or done by another party, or by a director, officer, agent or employee of that party, before this Agreement was executed, save as permitted by law.
Execution of separate documents
11.3 This Agreement is properly executed if each party executes either this Agreement or an identical Agreement.  
11.4 If identical Agreements are executed, this Agreement takes effect when the separately executed Agreements are exchanged between the parties.
Further acts
11.5 The parties will promptly do and perform all acts and things and execute all agreements as may from time to time be required, and at all times will act in good faith, for the purposes of or to give effect to this Agreement.
Governing law and jurisdiction
11.6 This document is governed by the law of the  State in which the dispute is to be heard, as specified in Clause 5 of Schedule 1.
11.7 The parties submit to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of the courts of the State as set out in Clause 5 of Schedule 1.
11.8 The parties must not object to the exercise of jurisdiction by the courts   of the State as set out in Clause 5 of Schedule 1.
No agency or partnership
11.9 No party is an agent, representative, partner of any other party by virtue of this Agreement.
No authority to act
11.10 No party has any power or authority to act for or to assume any obligation or responsibility on behalf of another party, to bind another party to any agreement, negotiate or enter into any binding relationship for or on behalf of another party or pledge the credit of another party except as specifically provided in this Agreement or by express agreement between the parties.
Severability
11.11 If a clause or part of a clause of this Agreement can be read in a way that makes it illegal, unenforceable or invalid, but can also be read in a way that makes it legal, enforceable and valid, it must be read in the latter way.  
11.12 If any clause or part of a clause of this Agreement is illegal, unenforceable or invalid, that clause or part must be treated as removed from this Agreement, but the rest of this Agreement is not affected.
Variation
11.13 No variation of this Agreement will be of any force or effect unless it is in writing and signed by the parties to this Agreement.
Waiver
11.14 The fact that a party fails to do, or delays in doing, something the party is entitled to do under this Agreement, does not amount to a waiver of any obligation of, or breach of obligation by, another party.  
11.15 A waiver by a party is only effective if it is in writing.  
11.16 A written waiver by a party is only effective in relation to the particular obligation or breach in respect of which it is given.  
11.17 It is not to be taken as an implied waiver of any other obligation or breach or as an implied waiver of that obligation or breach in relation to any other occasion.
12 Definitions and interpretation
Definitions
12.1 In this document the following definitions apply:
Agreement means this agreement.
Dispute means the dispute referred by the Adviser to the Dispute Resolution Panel for resolution in accordance with clause 8.2.6A of the Code and as briefly described in clause 4 of Schedule 1.
Expenses means the expenses (including room hire, travel, accommodation, provision of transcripts and other incidental expenses) that are reasonably incurred by a DRP Member and the NECA Adviser in relation to the Dispute.
Fees means the fees payable to a DRP Member or the NECA Adviser in relation to the Dispute. 
Code Participant includes each of the Code Participants named in clause 2 of Schedule 1 and any other Code Participant that becomes a party to this Agreement in accordance with clause 9.1.
National Electricity Law means the law enacted by the states of New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, Queensland, and the Australian Capital Territory pursuant to an agreement between those jurisdictions made the 9th day of May, 1996 being the schedule (as amended from time to time) to an act of the parliament of South Australia entitled 'National Electricity (South Australia) Act 1996'
NECA means the National Electricity Code Administrator Limited ABN 18 073 942 775.
NECA Adviser means the Dispute Resolution Adviser appointed by NECA under clause 8.2.2(a) of the Code and includes an Alternate acting in accordance with clause 8.6.2A(b) of the Code.
Interpretation
12.2 In this document, unless the context otherwise requires:
12.2.1 a reference to any law or legislation or legislative provision includes any statutory modification, amendment or re-enactment, and any subordinate legislation or regulations issued under that legislation or legislative provision;
12.2.2 a reference to any agreement or document is to that agreement or document as amended, novated, supplemented or replaced from time to time;
12.2.3 a reference to a clause, part, schedule or attachment is a reference to a clause, part, schedule or attachment of or to this document unless otherwise stated;
12.2.4 an expression importing a natural person includes any company, trust, partnership, joint venture, association, corporation, body corporate or governmental agency;
12.2.5 a reference to a business day means a day on which all banks are open for business generally in   the State as set out in Clause 5 of Schedule 1
12.2.6 the day on which any act, matter or thing is to be done under this document is not a business day, that act, matter or thing may be done on the next business day;
12.2.7 a covenant or agreement on the part of two or more persons binds them jointly and severally; and
12.2.8 the schedules and attachments form part of this document.
Execution
Executed as an agreement
Date:
Signed by [Insert Name of DRP Member]:

......................................................


Signed by [Insert Name of DRP Member]:

......................................................


Signed by [Insert Name of DRP Member]:

......................................................


Signed by the NECA Adviser
......................................................

Signed for and on behalf of [Insert Name of Code Participant] by its solicitor or its duly authorised officer [amend and insert names  and position as applicable]:

...........................................................

Signed for and on behalf of [Insert Name of Code Participant] by its solicitor or its duly authorised officer  [amend and nsert names  and position as applicable]:

...........................................................

Signed for and on behalf of [Insert Name of Code Participant] by its solicitor or its duly authorised officer  [amend and insert names  and position as applicable]:

..........................................................


Schedule 1
1 DRP Members
1.1 The name, address and fees of each DRP Member are:
Name

Address 



Hourly fee

Daily fee

Expenses


Name

Address 



Hourly fee

Daily fee

Expenses


Name

Address 



Hourly fee

Daily fee

Expenses



2 Code Participants
2.1 The name, ACN and addresses of each Code Participant is:
Name

ACN

Address 




Name

ACN

Address 




Name

ACN

Address 



3 NECA Adviser
3.1 The name, address and fees of the NECA Adviser are:
Name

Address



Fee (administration)

Fee (facilitation)

Expenses

4 Description of Dispute
[insert outline of the Dispute referred by the Adviser to the Dispute Resolution Panel]









5 Relevant State
5.1 The State for the purposes of governing law, jurisdiction and calculating business day is (State in which the dispute is to be heard) __________________________


RBW / 0015823

Dispute Resolution Agreement



D9B Final DRP Agreement  - Issued 7 July 2003




Dispute Resolution Agreement



