


UNFAIR DISMISSALS
REFERRAL AGREEMENT



THIS REFERRAL AGREEMENT is made this         day of May in the year Two Thousand and Six, between the following parties:

INSERT NAME OF COUNCIL of insert street address, insert suburb or town in the State of New South Wales (the "Council"); and

LOCAL GOVERNMENT ASSOCIATION OF NEW SOUTH WALES or SHIRES ASSOCIATION OF NEW SOUTH WALES of Level 8, 28 Margaret Street, Sydney in the State of New South Wales (the "LGSA"); and

NEW SOUTH WALES LOCAL GOVERNMENT, CLERICAL, ADMINISTRATIVE, ENERGY, AIRLINES AND UTILITIES UNION of Level 7, 321 Pitt Street, Sydney in the State of New South Wales (the "USU"); and

DEVELOPMENT AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROFESSIONALS' ASSOCIATION of 106/118 Great North Road, Five Dock in the State of New South Wales ("depa"); and

LOCAL GOVERNMENT ENGINEERS' ASSOCIATION of Level 1, 491 Kent Street, Sydney in the State of New South Wales (the "LGEA").



RECITALS

A.	The Council, the LGSA, the USU, depa and the LGEA have agreed to resolve disputes concerning the dismissal or threatened dismissal of an employee or a number of employees, who are members or eligible to be members of the USU and/or depa, and/or the LGEA, where it is alleged that the dismissal or threatened dismissal was harsh, unreasonable or unjust, by allowing such matters to be referred to the Industrial Relations Commission of New South Wales (the "Commission") as allowed pursuant to the provisions of section 146A of the Industrial Relations Act 1996 (NSW) (the "Act") in accordance with the terms of this Referral Agreement.

B.	The parties agree that they would be assisted in resolving these disputes by the Industrial Relations Commission of New South Wales.



OPERATIVE PROVISIONS

The parties to this Referral Agreement agree that the following terms, conditions and exclusions apply to such a referral:

1. The removal, retirement, termination of employment or other cessation of office of the general manager or another senior staff member, as defined by section 332 of the Local Government Act 1993 (NSW), or any matter, question or dispute relating to any such employment, is not a matter that can be referred pursuant to this Referral Agreement.

2. This Referral Agreement will only operate in relation to dismissals or threatened dismissals that occur on or after the date that the Referral Agreement is entered into.

3. The parties agree that in referring a matter pursuant to this Referral Agreement the Commission shall have the same functions, powers, conditions, exclusions and provisions as contained in Part 6 of Chapter 2 of the Act.

4. The parties agree that in referring a matter pursuant to this Referral Agreement the functions, powers, conditions, exclusions and provisions as contained in Part 3 of Industrial Relations (General) Regulation 2001 will function to facilitate the operation of this Referral Agreement.

5. The parties agree that in referring a matter pursuant to this Referral Agreement the functions, powers, conditions, exclusions, provisions and forms as contained in the Industrial Relations Commission Rules 1996 will function to facilitate the operation of this Referral Agreement.

6. The parties agree that in referring a matter pursuant to this Referral Agreement the provisions and process as outlined in Practice Direction No. 17 of the Commission will function to facilitate the operation of this Referral Agreement.

7. The notification of a dispute which seeks to pursue a remedy consistent with those available under Part 6 of Chapter 2 of the Act for an alleged dismissal or threatened dismissal of an employee, may be made by the USU, depa or the LGEA in accordance with any procedures established by the Commission for Referral Agreements made pursuant to section 146A of the Act.

8. The notification of a dispute which seeks to pursue a remedy consistent with those available under Part 6 of Chapter 2 of the Act for an alleged dismissal or threatened dismissal, of a number of employees dismissed at the same time for related reasons, may be made by the USU, depa or the LGEA in accordance with any procedures established by the Commission for Referral Agreements made pursuant to section 146A of the Act.

9. The notification of a dispute in accordance with clause 8 above does not prevent the Commission from hearing a number of notifications under this Referral Agreement together or individually.

10. Prior to making a notification pursuant to clause 7 or 8 above, the USU, depa or the LGEA agree to:

a. notify in writing the Council and the LGSA of any dismissal considered to be potentially unfair; and 
b. where practicable meet with the Council and the LGSA to discuss and review settlement options.

11. Upon making a notification pursuant to clause 7 or 8 of this Referral Agreement, the USU, depa or the LGEA agree to produce in writing for the benefit of both the Commission and the Council, an undertaking of the member or members that proceedings will not be commenced under any other Act or statutory instrument for redress of the claim concerning a dismissal or threatened dismissal that is being referred to the Commission.  Such an undertaking shall be made in a manner consistent with Form 11 of the Industrial Relations Commission Rules 1996.

12. A notification made pursuant to clause 7 or 8 of this Referral Agreement must be made no later than 21 days after the dismissal or threatened dismissal of the employee or employees.

13. The Commission has a discretion on the same basis as the discretion contained in section 85(3) of the Act, to accept a notification filed pursuant to clause 7 or 8 of this Referral Agreement if the application has been filed outside the time limit identified at operative clause 12 above.

14. The Commission must endeavour, by all means it considers proper and necessary to settle a notification pursuant to clause 7 or 8 of this Referral Agreement, by conciliation.

15. Upon conclusion of the conciliation functions of the Commission outlined above in clause 14, the parties to this Referral Agreement may utilise and exercise the same right as is contained in section 173 of the Act.

16. In the event that an application is not resolved through the conciliation functions of the Commission outlined in clause 14 above then the parties to this Referral Agreement agree to refer the matter for arbitration by the Commission.

17. In hearing proceedings under this Referral Agreement the parties agree that the Commission shall be limited to the same powers, orders and functions as contained in:

a. sections 87 to 90 of the Act;
b. section 162 of the Act in relation to the general procedure of the Commission;
c. section 163(1) of the Act in relation to the rules of evidence;
d. sections 164(1) and (3) of the Act in relation to powers of the Commission as to the production of evidence, perjury and contempt;
e. sections 164A(1), (3) and (4) of the Act in relation to the disclosure and non-disclosure of matters before the Commission;
f. section 165 of the Act in relation to the issue of summonses;
g. section 166 of the Act in relation to the representation of the parties;
h. section 169 of the Act in relation to the consideration of anti-discrimination matters;
i. section 170 of the Act in relation to dealing with amendments and irregularities;
j. section 171 of the Act in relation to the imposition of conditions;
k. section 174 of the Act in relation to the powers of the Commission when an application is settled by conciliation;
l. section 175 of the Act in relation to the powers of interpretation;
m. section 176 of the Act in relation to the reconstitution of the Commission during a hearing;
n. section 177 of the Act in relation to the reserving of a decision;
o. section 178 of the Act in relation to the divided opinion of the Commission in Full Bench proceedings referred under operative clause 19 below;
p. section 179 of the Act in relation to the finality of decisions; and
q. section 184 of the Act in relation to the power of entry of members of the Commission and authorised officers.

18. Subject to the operation of clause 19 below, an order, determination or other decision made by the Commission by operation of this Referral Agreement is binding upon the parties to this Referral Agreement and is to be implemented forthwith.

19. A party to this Referral Agreement may appeal any binding order, determination or decision of the Commission arising from the operation of this Referral Agreement.  An appeal to a Full Bench of the Commission and any such appeal will be as if the provisions of Part 7 of Chapter 4 of the Act apply.  Where such an appeal is made the Full Bench shall have the same powers as contained in section 192 of the Act.

20. Where all the parties to this Referral Agreement agree to modify or vary the Referral Agreement, then this Referral Agreement may be modified or varied and any such variation is to be in writing and signed by all the parties.

21. Where all the parties to this Referral Agreement agree this Referral Agreement may be rescinded or terminated (prior to the expiration of the term in clause 22) and any such rescission or termination is to be in writing and signed by all the parties.



22. This Referral Agreement will have a nominal term of 12 months.  The Referral Agreement will continue to operate beyond the nominal term until a party to the Agreement affords to the other parties one months' written notice that it intends to terminate the Referral Agreement.  The Referral Agreement will expire at the end of the notice period.




On behalf of the Council				On behalf of the LGSA







On behalf of USU					On behalf of depa






On behalf of the LGEA

Unfair Dismissal Referral Agreement		Page 1 of 5	

