BUSINESS PLACEMENT (BUSINESS HOST) AGREEMENT

THE UNIVERSITY OF WESTERN SYDNEY, a body corporate established pursuant to the University of Western Sydney Act 1997 (NSW) Locked Bag 1797 Penrith South NSW 1797 ("the University")

RECITALS
A. The Business Host has agreed to host UWS students ("the Students") who are enrolled in a course of study offered through the University ("the UWS Degree") to engage in practical work experience with the Business Host ("the Activities").
B. The Parties wish to collaborate in accordance with the following terms and conditions ("these Terms") to enable Students to participate in the Activities with the Business Host as part of the requirements for his/her UWS Degree.

IT IS AGREED
1. Learning Plan and Agreement to Terms
1.1 The Business Host agrees that the Activities will be conducted in accordance with the Learning Plan agreed to between the University, Student/s and the Business Host.  The University will nominate which Students will engage in the Activities with the Business Host.  The Learning Plan will generally follow the outline example as set out in the Schedule to these Terms.
1.2 The Business Host agrees to host the Activities in accordance with these Terms. The Business Host also recognises that the Activities are being undertaken as an educational exercise by the Student and therefore the Student may not be in any way qualified or experienced to produce any specific outcome.
2. Business Host Commitments
2.1 To enable the Students to undertake the Activities, the Business Host will nominate in writing an individual supervisor, who will supervise the Students whilst they are engaged in Activities with the Business Host ("the Supervisor"). 
2.2 The Supervisor shall be an experienced member of the Business Host's staff and will be responsible for giving the Students a tour of the Business Hosts operations, ensuring the Students are aware of all emergency procedures. 
2.3 The Business Host will make available to the Student (and University staff involved in the Activities) written administrative guidelines, policies, rules, regulations, protocols, procedures, by-laws and any other information relevant to Students and University staff in connection with Activities to be conducted under this Agreement.
2.4 The Business Host will provide the Students with appropriate accommodation and access to its equipment, systems and information commensurate with the requirements of the Student f or the Activities. 
2.5 The Business Host will ensure that the Supervisor will meet with the Students regularly in accordance with the Learning Plan to provide support and guidance in relation to the Activities and to update the Students on their progress.
2.6 The Business Host is responsible for satisfying itself that the Students are competent to perform allotted tasks and that they conduct themselves in a safe and professional manner. The Business Host acknowledges that neither the Students nor University staff is providing a consultancy or similar service.
2.7 The Business Host agrees that it will pay and be liable for all reasonable costs and expenses associated with Students performing the Activities, such costs may include travel, accommodation and purchase of commercial data.
2.8 The Business Host agrees to comply in respect of UWS Students and University staff with University policies in respect of: 
(a) discrimination, harassment and bullying;
(b) safety and accident reporting;
(c) privacy;
(d) University Code of Conduct;
copies of which the Business Host acknowledges as having been received by it and which can also be accessed through the University website: UWS Policy DDS - Home (http://policies.uws.edu.au/)
3. University Commitments
3.1 The University agrees that Students may undertake the Activities with the Business Host, either as an individual or as part of a team of other Students and/or University staff.
3.2 The University will provide support and facilities that it has agreed to under the Learning Plan.
3.3 The University agrees to use its reasonable endeavours to ensure that Students and UWS staff observe all rules, regulations, protocols and procedures of the Business Host as notified by it in writing.
3.4 The University will effect and maintain the following insurance policies: public liability and professional indemnity cover for an amount of at least $AUD10 million respectively for each event insuring the University, University Staff and Students engaged in the Activities while at the Company; personal accident insurance cover for Students; and Workers' Compensation cover of an unlimited amount for University Staff
4. Intellectual Property
4.1 Each party will continue to own its own Background Intellectual Property.  Each party grants to the other a royalty free, non-exclusive right to use, reproduce, adapt and communicate its Background Intellectual Property to the extent that it is necessary for the performance of activities as contemplated by these Terms.
4.2 The Business Host acknowledges that any Developed IP will be jointly owned by the University and the Business Host.
4.3 Notwithstanding any other provisions of this clause the University will have the right to:
4.3.1 use the Developed IP for research and educational purposes subject to the confidentiality restrictions set out in clause 5; and
4.3.2 publish all or part of the Developed IP subject to the conditions set out in clause 6.
4.4 Notwithstanding any other provisions of this clause, the Business Host acknowledges and agrees that the UWS Student will have the right to:
4.4.1 use the Developed IP for the purposes of completing the UWS Degree subject to the confidentiality restrictions set out in clause 5; and
4.4.2 publish all or part of the Developed IP for the purposes of completing the UWS Degree subject to the conditions set out in clause 6.
5. Confidentiality
5.1 UWS Student Confidentiality: Subject to clause 5.2, the University will use reasonable endeavours to ensure that UWS Students agree to keep confidential all Confidential Information that comes into his/her possession or knowledge by virtue of their participation in an Activity for a period of three (3) years following completion of their UWS Degree.
5.2 Examiner Confidentiality: The Business Host must not prevent the Student from presenting a paper, dissertation, thesis or other assignment ("Assessment") that refers to any Activity for examination purposes, provided appropriate steps are taken to ensure the protection of Business Host's Confidential Information.  Accordingly, the Business Host may request, through the University:
5.2.1 that any examiner sign an appropriate confidentiality undertaking; and/or 
5.2.2 that a limited time embargo be placed on access to the Assessment for examination purposes (being a time period mutually agreed by the parties), provided that the embargo does not prevent examination of a Student's Assessment within the time specified by the University rules for completion of the UWS Degree.
5.3 Business Host and the University Confidentiality: The University and the Business Host acknowledge that they may become aware of Confidential Information of the other party through the supervision of the Student as contemplated by these Terms, and agree to keep any such Confidential Information confidential for a period of three (3) years following conclusion of any Activities to which that Confidential Information relates.
6. Publication
The Business Host acknowledges that one of the aims of the University is to encourage the public dissemination of research results generated through University programs.  As such, while the Business Host may restrict publication to third parties of the Developed IP and information relating to the Activities to protect its Intellectual Property or Confidential Information, the Business Host agrees to use its best endeavours to limit any restrictions it imposes on publication.  The parties agree without limitation that the following circumstances warrant the Business Host restricting publication of information relating to the Activities:
(a) where the information relating to the Activities contains Confidential Information of the Business Host that is an integral part of ongoing research of the Business Host; or
(b) where the information relating to the Activities contains Confidential Information that would jeopardise or hinder the Business Host's commercial activities if published.
7. Disclaimer and Indemnity
7.1 The Business Host indemnifies the University, its officers, employees, students and agents from and against all loss, liability and expense (including the costs of defending or settling any such action, claim or demand) arising out of or in connection with any reliance on the Activities or any negligent act or omission of the Business Host, its officers, employees, and agents in connection with these Terms, except to the extent that the University caused or contributed to the loss.
7.2 Subject to clause 7.1, the University indemnifies the Business Host, its officers, employees and agents from and against loss, liability and expense (including the costs of defending or settling any such action, claim or demand) arising out of or in connection with any negligent act or omission of the University, its staff and Students in connection the Activities, except to the extent that the Business Host caused or contributed to the loss.
7.3 Notwithstanding any other provision of these Terms a party will not be liable to another party for and in respect of all claims for consequential, indirect or special damages including but not limited to loss of business profits, anticipatory profits, business interruption or loss of business information.
8. Termination
8.1	The arrangements subject to these Terms may be terminated:
(a)	if a party gives the other parties thirty (30) days written notice of termination; or
(b)	immediately, if the Business Host gives notice that there has been a breach of these Terms by either the Student or the University.
8.2	Clauses 4, 5, 6 and 7 survive termination or expiry of these Terms.
9. Dispute Resolution
9.1 Before resorting to external dispute resolution mechanisms, the parties will attempt to settle by negotiation any dispute in relation to these Terms including by referring the matter to personnel who may have authority to intervene and direct some form of resolution.
9.2 If a dispute is not settled by the parties within 10 working days of one party first sending to the other party written notice that they are in dispute, the dispute may be submitted to some alternative dispute resolution mechanism as may be agreed in writing between the parties.  If the parties cannot agree upon an alternative dispute resolution mechanism, then either party may terminate the arrangements covered by these Terms on thirty (30) days notice.
9.3 Notwithstanding clause 9.1 and 9.2, if a dispute arises as a result of the Student's misconduct, as that term is defined in the University's Student Misconduct policies, as amended, the Business Host agrees that the University will resolve the dispute in accordance with the procedure set out in the relevant University policy, as amended.
10. Negation of Employment and Agency
	A party to this agreement is not by virtue of undertaking any Activity (or anything in relation to an Activity) an officer, employee, partner or agent of another party to this agreement, nor does a party to this agreement have any power or authority to bind or represent another party to this agreement.
11. Applicable Law
	This agreement is governed by and is to be construed in accordance with the laws applicable in the State of New South Wales. The parties irrevocably and unconditionally submit to the exclusive jurisdiction of the courts of the State of New South Wales
12. Definitions
        For the purposes of these Terms:
"Background Intellectual Property" means the Intellectual Property  which the Business Host notifies the University in writing as being its own pre-existing Intellectual Property the Intellectual Property of the Student which may be notified by to the Business Host plus any other Intellectual Property the University makes available for the purposes of the Activities; 
"Developed Intellectual Property" means all material developed for the purpose of conducting and completing the Activities, including any modifications to a party's Background Intellectual Property; and
"Intellectual Property" or "IP" means statutory and other proprietary rights in respect of trade marks, designs, patents, circuit layouts, copyright, plant breeders rights, confidential information, know-how and all other rights resulting from intellectual activity in the industrial, commercial, scientific, literary or artistic fields.
"Confidential Information" means all information of whatever description, whether in permanently recorded form or not, which is by its nature confidential or which is identified as confidential at the time of disclosure and includes without limitation, information:
(a) relating to the Activities;
(b) all know-how, trade secrets and other Intellectual Property of a party; and
(c) all financial or marketing information and other commercial or scientific information which  the Business Host notifies the University in writing prior to its disclosure; 
and excludes information:
(d) which is or becomes part of the public domain other than through breach of these Terms or an obligation of confidence owed to another party;
(e) which a party can prove by contemporaneous written documentation was already known to it at the time of disclosure by the disclosing party (other than if such knowledge arose from disclosure of information in breach of an obligation of confidentiality;
(f) which the disclosing party acquires from a third party entitled to disclose it; or
(g) which is required by a party to be disclosed by law.


SCHEDULE

Outline Example of Learning Plan Requirements

1. The University will provide the Business Host with a list of individual Students who will be engaged in the Activities and be covered by the Terms.

2. The Supervisor will provide the Student and UWS staff with an initial briefing on the nature of the Activities within a specific period of time before commencement of any of the Activities, at a time mutually agreeable to the University, and the Students. The initial briefing will be sufficiently detailed to allow the Student and University staff to understand the nature of the tasks involved and the expectations of the Business Host.   The contents of the initial briefing will be provided to the University in writing prior to it being delivered to the Students.

3. The Supervisor will work with the University to negotiate a plan for the conduct of the Activities that will set out the aims, methods and timeframe for completion of the Activities. 

4. During the timeframe for the Activities, the Supervisor will meet with the Students and (where required by the University) UWS staff, for a minimum of two one-hour sessions, to evaluate progress on the Activities, provide relevant feedback.  The University will determine in conjunction with the Business Host the aims and agenda of such sessions].

5. At the final meeting between the Supervisor, the Students and UWS staff, the Students may be required to provide the Supervisor with an oral and/or written presentation on the outcomes developed and the experiences they have gained during the course of the Activities.

6. After each meeting, including at the completion of the Activities, the Supervisor may be required by the University to prepare a written evaluation of the Student's progress and quality of work.  The written evaluations must be provided by the date as specified by the University.

7. The University will outline what resources and facilities it will make available to the Business Host in relation to the Activities









4
Business Placement V3 (Business Host) Shortform (4)



Business Placement V3 (Business Host) Shortform (4)

