INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT FOR A NATIONAL LICENSING SYSTEM FOR SPECIFIED OCCUPATIONSCouncil of Australian Governments1.	PARTIES
1.1 AN AGREEMENT made on the 30th day of April 2009, between:
? The Commonwealth of Australia; 
? The State of New South Wales;
? The State of Victoria;
? The State of Queensland;
? The State of Western Australia;
? The State of South Australia;
? The State of Tasmania;
? The Australian Capital Territory; and
? The Northern Territory of Australia
2.	DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATION
2.1	In this Agreement, unless the context appears otherwise:
a. 'Act' is a reference to an Act and includes a reference to a Regulation;
b. 'Agreement' means this Intergovernmental Agreement;
c. 'approved Regulation Impact Statement' means a Regulation Impact Statement that has been approved by the Office of Best Practice Regulation (Commonwealth);
d. 'business licence' means any licence required for a business entity to work within a specified occupational area; 
e. 'COAG' means the Council of Australian Governments;
f. 'commencement of the national licensing system' means 1 July 2012, as outlined in the indicative legislation implementation schedule provided at Attachment A;
g. 'conduct requirements' means the regulatory requirements relating to conduct that a licensee must comply with when undertaking work authorised by a licence and may include, but are not limited to, related areas such as disciplinary measures and consumer remedies;
h. 'consensus' when regarding a voting arrangement means 100 percent agreement between the Parties;
i. 'implementation phase' means the period between the signing of this Agreement and the commencement of the national licensing system;
j. 'jurisdiction' means one of the Parties to this Agreement;
k. 'licence' has the same meaning as 'registration' under the Mutual Recognition Act 1992, and also covers negative licensing, and in addition includes any equivalent registration going to a business entity, however constituted, required by or under legislation to work within a specified occupational area;
l. 'licensing policy or national licensing policy' includes, but is not limited to, such areas as licence eligibility and maintenance requirements; licence classes, categories, conditions and duration; compliance and enforcement standards, disciplinary arrangements and licence fees;
m. 'Ministerial Council' means the Ministerial Council responsible for the national licensing system pursuant to part 5 of this Agreement;
n. 'national delegated agency model' means a national licensing system model that permits the national licensing body to delegate to a jurisdiction the operation of licensing services;
o. 'national licensing board' means the board, or such board known by another name, that is established pursuant to the national licensing legislation as part of the system pursuant to part 5 of this Agreement;
p. 'national licensing body' means the body, or such a body known by another name, that is established pursuant to the national licensing legislation as part of the system pursuant to part 5 of this Agreement and governed by the national licensing board;
q. 'national single agency model' means a national licensing system model that provides for a national office and branch offices within each jurisdiction that undertake the functions of the national licensing body within that structure;
r. 'negative licensing' is a statutory scheme that allows a person or business to practise an occupation unless they breach statutory-based requirements;
s. 'occupational area' means any occupation, trade or profession specified by COAG or the Ministerial Council for inclusion in the national licensing system;
t. 'occupational licence' includes any licence required for an individual to work within a specified occupational area;
u. 'occupational licence advisory committee' means a committee that is established as part of the national licensing system pursuant to part 5 of this Agreement to provide advice to the national licensing body in relation to an occupational area; 
v. 'Party' means a party to this Agreement;
w. 'system' or 'national system' means the national licensing system;
x. 'training package' means an integrated set of nationally-endorsed competency standards, assessment guidelines and Australian Qualifications Framework qualifications for a specific industry or industry sector that have been developed through the national training system;
y. 'VET' means Vocational Education and Training.
3.	OPERATION AND SCOPE OF AGREEMENT
3.1 	This Agreement commences upon signature by all of the Parties.

3.2 	All disputes between the Parties will be resolved in accordance with this Agreement.

3.3 The Parties will use all reasonable measures to comply with the dates in this Agreement and acknowledge that any date may be altered by agreement of the Ministerial Council subject to clauses 13.9 and 13.10.

3.4 The Parties to this Agreement agree to establish a national co-operative licensing system for the occupational areas approved from time to time by the Ministerial Council.

3.5 The national licensing system will include relevant business and occupational licences in the following initial occupational areas:
a. airconditioning and refrigeration mechanics;
b. building and building related occupations;
c. electrical;
d. land transport (passenger vehicle drivers and dangerous goods only);
e. maritime;
f. plumbing and gasfitting; and
g. property agents.

3.6 Where an occupational area covered by clause 3.5 is being considered or included under another national reform initiative with the potential to encompass occupational licensing, the Ministerial Council can determine that it is appropriate that responsibility for that occupational area be transferred from the national licensing system to that reform initiative.

3.7 The Parties agree that the national licensing system will not compromise Queensland's existing home warranty insurance scheme.

3.8 This Agreement is not intended to create any legal or justiciable obligation whatsoever upon any of the Parties, either as between them or as between a Party and any other person.

3.9 This Agreement will not require a Party to this Agreement to adopt national licensing policies for any occupational area or sub group, until agreed by the Ministerial Council.
4.	OBJECTIVES AND PRINCIPLES
4.1 The objectives of the national system, to be set out in legislation, are to:
a. ensure that licences issued by the national licensing body allow licensees to operate in all Australian jurisdictions;
b. ensure that licensing arrangements are effective and proportional to that required for consumer protection, and worker and public health and safety, while ensuring economic efficiency and equity of access;
c. facilitate a consistent skill base for licensed occupations;
d. ensure effective coordination exists between the national licensing body and relevant jurisdictional regulators;
e. promote national consistency in:-
i. licensing structures and policy across comparable occupational areas,
ii. regulation affecting the conduct requirements of licensees, and
iii. the approaches to disciplinary arrangements affecting licensees;
f. provide flexibility to deal with jurisdiction or industry specific issues; and
g. provide access to public information about licensees.
4.2 In addition to complying with COAG's Principles of Best Practice Regulation, the system will conform with the following principles, to be reflected in the legislation:
a. the system operates in a transparent, accountable, efficient, effective and fair manner;
b. regulatory intervention in the form of licensing is only contemplated where risks arising from market failure or risks to public health and safety warrant corrective action and, of all feasible options, licensing provides the greatest net public benefit;
c. licensing arrangements do not duplicate legislative protections contained under other laws in particular competition law, consumer protection law or occupational health and safety law;
d. licensing arrangements only include those requirements needed to address identified consumer protection risks arising from market failure or public and worker health and safety risks without imposing unnecessary costs on consumers and business or substantially lessening competition;
e. licensing eligibility requirements are expressed in objective not subjective terms;
f. the system will not require the extension of licensing to sub-groups of a broad occupational group that are not currently licensed in particular jurisdictions;  and 
g. licensing arrangements are subject to an initial review five years after commencement and subsequently at a frequency no less than every 10 years.

4.3	For the purposes of clause 4.1(c) the national licensing system will facilitate a consistent skill base for licensed occupational areas by:
a. providing input into Training Package development and review processes on the skill and education eligibility requirements of occupational licences;
b. where Training Package qualifications/skill sets exist which cover the scope of regulated activity, determining if those qualifications/skill sets adequately address the skill and education eligibility requirements of occupational licences; 
c. in cases where there are both VET and higher education pathways, using the Training Package qualifications/skill sets that meet the skill and education eligibility requirements of occupational licences as the benchmark for the skill standards to be achieved by other learning pathways;
d. where an agreed Training Package pathway does not exist, certifying appropriate State and Territory accredited VET courses for an interim time pending revision of the appropriate Training Package to incorporate licence requirements; and
e. certifying appropriate higher education courses which meet the skill-related licence eligibility requirements and regularly reviewing all such courses at an interval determined by the Ministerial Council to ensure currency and rigour.

4.4	The Parties confirm that the national licensing system will not regulate employment conditions, rates of pay or other employment matters with regard to the occupational areas covered by the system.
5.	GOVERNANCE
MINISTERIAL COUNCIL
5.1 The legislation will provide that a Ministerial Council, which will comprise a Commonwealth Minister and the Ministers nominated by each State and Territory, be responsible for the national licensing system. 

5.2 The Ministerial Council, in its capacity as the Council responsible for the national licensing system, will meet from time to time as required and will comply with COAG's agreed Broad Protocols and General Principles for the Operation of Ministerial Councils.
Voting Arrangements
5.3 An agreement by the Ministerial Council for the purpose of the implementation phase relating to this system will be by consensus.  In circumstances where the Ministerial Council is unable to come to an agreement and a decision must be made, there will be a transparent process of review in order to assist it to reach an agreement.

5.4 After the national licensing system has commenced the Ministerial Council will:
a. be responsible for determining its own voting arrangements in relation to the national licensing system; and
b. review its terms of reference, including voting arrangements, within 12 months of the commencement of the national licensing system.

5.5 Where the Ministerial Council is unable to achieve consensus on the inclusion of a new occupational area or sub-group of an occupational area, or the specific national licence policy for an occupational area or sub-group, the majority of jurisdictions may agree to include a new occupational area or sub-group, or introduce a national licence policy, if the Ministerial Council approves the remaining jurisdictions deferring national licensing in this area.

5.6 Where the Ministerial Council has approved a jurisdiction deferring the inclusion of a new occupational area or sub-group of an occupational area, or the specific national licence policy, as provided at clause 5.5, the Ministerial Council must review its approval every 12 months while the approval is operative.
Jurisdictional Issues
5.7 Any of the Parties to this agreement may, as a result of the findings of a Coronial Inquiry or similar, or in response to jurisdiction or industry specific issues, request that the national licence policy be amended as a result of such findings or circumstances.  In such instances the Ministerial Council must request that the national licensing body:
a. undertake policy analysis of the issues in consultation with the relevant occupational licence advisory committee;
b. identify the implications to the system;
c. recommend any legislative or system amendments; and
d. provide advice to the Ministerial Council within a specified timeframe.

5.8 If the Ministerial Council does not agree to the requested change to national licence policy under the process described in clause 5.7, within six months from the date that a jurisdiction requests an amendment to the national licence policy, the jurisdiction can then make a decision on whether it will proceed with the change unilaterally.
5.9 Any policy introduced by a jurisdiction as a result of the process described in clause 5.8 will not be nationally recognised under the national licensing system.
General Issues
5.10 Prior to the national licensing system legislation being enacted COAG or a Ministerial Council designated by COAG will be responsible for all matters necessary to ensure that the national licensing body and national licensing board are established, including any appropriate governance arrangements, division of responsibilities and functions between the Ministerial Council, national licensing body and national licensing board.

5.11 The Parties to this Agreement agree that the national licensing system will commence with a national delegated agency model but the option for moving to a national single agency model over time for any occupational area or areas should be retained. 

5.12 The Parties to this Agreement acknowledge that the Ministerial Council, subject to COAG's Principles of Best Practice Regulation, may agree by consensus to actively identify and include conduct requirements in the national licensing system.

5.13 The Ministerial Council will not intervene in the day to day operations of the national licensing body.  To remove all doubt, the Ministerial Council will not have any power to intervene in decisions relating to:
a. the eligibility of an applicant for a licence (including any renewal processes); and 
b. licensee disciplinary decisions.
NATIONAL LICENSING BODY
5.14 The national licensing body will develop policy and administer the system.

5.15 The national licensing body will have a Chief Executive Officer and will be governed 	by a board of directors known as the national licensing board.  

5.16 The national licensing body must develop licence policy in accordance with the objectives and principles as specified in clauses 4.1 and 4.2.

5.17 The national licensing body will establish occupational licence advisory committees as the principal source of advice on licence policy for the occupational areas under the national licensing system.

5.18 The national licensing body must consult with stakeholders in relevant occupational areas, including occupational licence advisory committees, to ensure that the national licensing board is able to provide authoritative advice to the Ministerial Council.

5.19 The national licensing body will appoint a chair and adopt a transparent appointment process for an adequate number of general members of occupational licence advisory committees to ensure that each committee has the range of expertise required to fulfil its function for an occupational area including unions and employer groups, professional associations, consumer advocacy organisations, regulators, insurance peak bodies (where relevant) and the national training system.

5.20 The national licensing body may review the effectiveness and efficiency of the occupational licence advisory committee arrangements and amend them as required.

5.21 Any arrangements or amendments proposed under clause 5.20 must not exclude any of the range of expertise required by clause 5.19.

5.22 The national licensing body must establish effective working relationships with jurisdictional regulators for each occupational area to promote effective coordination and to assist in the ongoing implementation and associated issues in relation to the national licensing system. 

5.23 During the implementation phase the national licensing body will regularly consult with a jurisdictional reference group on issues that arise relating to the implementation of the national licensing system and on progress with the development of licence policy.  Each jurisdiction will nominate a senior officer as its representative on the reference group.
NATIONAL LICENSING BOARD
5.24 The national licensing board will comprise of one independent chair and up to nine general members.

5.25 The independent chair must be an eminent person and not currently practising in any of the occupational areas admitted to the system.

5.26 The general members must comprise of people with a range of union, employer, consumer advocacy and training experience and also include a minimum of two regulators appointed on a two yearly rotating basis across jurisdictions.

5.27 Ministers in determining whether to appoint members to the national licensing board will ensure that a nominee's skills and expertise are commensurate with the objectives of the Agreement and that there is an appropriate balance of skills and expertise among members.

5.28 In providing advice to the Ministerial Council on licence policy in relation to a particular occupational area, or sub-group of an occupational area, the national licensing board must take into account advice provided by the relevant occupational licence advisory committee established under clause 5.17.

5.29 Jurisdictions may nominate an observer to attend each national licensing board meeting.

5.30 Where the national licensing board plans to consider a licensing policy for a particular occupation, the board will invite a representative of the occupational licence advisory committee for that occupation to attend the board meeting to discuss that item.
OCCUPATIONAL LICENCE ADVISORY COMMITTEES 
5.31 The function of occupational licence advisory committees is to provide advice to the national licensing body regarding the development, maintenance or performance of licensing policy in relation to the relevant occupational area(s), matters referred to it by the national licensing body or other industry specific matters that need to be brought to the attention of the national licensing body. 

5.32 General members collectively are to have a balance of expertise relevant to an occupational area across the fields of regulation, industry operations and practices (from both a union and employer perspective), safety, consumer advocacy, insurance (where relevant to an occupational area) and training.

5.33 There will be a transparent appointment process for general members that involves seeking nominations from relevant peak bodies, nationally based where possible, (union, employer bodies and occupational professional associations), consumer advocacy organisations, regulators, peak insurance bodies (where relevant to an occupational area) and national training system.  
6.	LEGISLATION SCHEME
IMPLEMENTATION
6.1 The Parliamentary Counsel's Committee will be responsible for the drafting of the national licensing system legislation.

6.2 For the purpose of ensuring implementation of a national licensing system, the States and Territories undertake to submit to their respective Parliaments whatever Bill or Bills that have the effect of achieving a national system.  The indicative legislation implementation schedule is provided at Attachment A.

6.3 The structure and functions of the national system will be set out in the legislation establishing the system.  The legislation will establish a single system covering licensing arrangements for specified occupations and will be framed so as to encompass this Agreement.

6.4 Victoria will host the substantive legislation to give effect to the national system, which will be subject to the approval of the Ministerial Council. Once approved by the Ministerial Council, Victoria will take the lead in enacting the primary legislation to establish the system. 

6.5 The States of New South Wales, Queensland, Western Australia, South Australia and Tasmania and the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory will, following passage of the Victorian legislation, enact legislation in their jurisdictions applying the Victorian legislation as a law of those jurisdictions, so as to permit the system to be established in accordance with the schedule provided at Attachment A.

6.6 Each of the States and Territories will repeal the existing licensing provisions in legislation which covers the occupational areas that are subject to the new national licensing system so as to permit the system to operate in accordance with the schedule at Attachment A. 

6.7 Each of the Parties will repeal, amend or modify any other legislation which is inconsistent with or alters the effect of the legislation to establish the national licensing system so as to permit the system to operate in accordance with the schedule at Attachment A.

6.8 A Party to this Agreement will not submit a Bill or Bills to its legislature which would be inconsistent with, or alter the effect of, the legislation to implement the national licensing system or this Agreement.
MINIMUM LEGISLATION REQUIREMENTS
6.9 At a minimum the national licensing system Act will provide for:

a. the objectives of the national licensing system under clause 4.1;
b. the reflection of the national licensing principles under clause 4.2;
c. the responsibilities of the Ministerial Council;
d. the business, responsibilities and functions of the national licensing board;
e. the roles, functions and responsibilities of the national licensing body;
f. the recruitment, appointments, tenure and conditions, including appropriate statutory immunities, for the members of the national licensing board and the chief executive officer of the national licensing body;
g. licensee disciplinary arrangements;
h. licensee appeal rights and mechanisms;
i. licence policy and its development; 
j. scope for the inclusion of new occupational areas and the Ministerial Council to approve by exception a jurisdiction deferring the introduction of a national licence in an occupational area or sub-group; 
k. national licensing system register requirements; 
l. principles for certification of courses under clauses 4.3(d) and (e) to provide a nationally-consistent skills base;
m. provisions that require licensees under the national licensing system to comply with the relevant State, Territory and local laws in the occupational area;
n. provisions for Federal, State and Territory conduct requirements and consumer remedy laws concerning the conduct of a licensee to trigger licensee disciplinary arrangements;  
o. reporting arrangements for the national licensing body and Parties to the Agreement;
p. deeming arrangements for licences under the national licensing system;  
q. the system not requiring the extension of licensing to sub-groups of a broad occupational group that are not currently licensed in particular jurisdictions;  and
r. the ability of the Ministerial Council to include conduct requirements for licensees under the national licensing system.
7.	REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
7.1 The Ministerial Council will report to COAG in accordance with any requirements established by this Agreement or by COAG guidelines and protocols, or at least annually.

7.2 During the implementation phase the Chief Executive Officer of the national licensing body, and once the national licensing board is appointed the board, will submit six monthly reports to the Ministerial Council advising of the progress of the national licensing system.

7.3 If the national licensing body becomes aware that a Party to this Agreement is acting inconsistently with a provision of this Agreement, the national licensing board must provide a report to the Ministerial Council outlining the inconsistency.
8.	FUNDING AND RESOURCES 
8.1 The obligations of a State or Territory Party under this Agreement are subject to the satisfactory resolution of the financial arrangements for the national licensing system through the Council of Australian Governments including further economic analysis of the establishment costs of the national licensing system and current and future State and Territory licensing revenue sources and expenditure.
8.2 States and Territories will collect licensing fees under the national licensing system.
8.3 It is not intended that a Party to this Agreement would be significantly disadvantaged compared to current arrangements and the fees for national licences will be allocated accordingly.
8.4 A Party to this Agreement will not be significantly disadvantaged compared to current arrangements for the revenue associated with trust funds for property agents and conveyancers. 
9.	ALTERATION OF THE SYSTEM AND AMENDMENTS TO THE LEGISLATION
9.1 Any of the Parties to this Agreement may propose amendments to the national licensing system or legislation by communicating the proposed amendments to the Ministerial Council and the justification for seeking them.

9.2 The Ministerial Council will consider any proposed amendments, in accordance with the objectives and principles as specified in clauses 4.1 and 4.2, and agree to such amendments as it sees fit.

9.3 If proposed amendments would substantially alter the objectives of the national licensing system any Ministerial Council decision to approve the proposed amendments must be by consensus.

9.4 If changes agreed under clauses 9.1 or 9.2 require legislative amendment, Victoria will: 
a. submit to its Parliament a Bill in a form agreed by the Ministerial Council which has the effect of amending the legislation in the manner agreed; and
b. take all reasonable steps to secure the passage of the Bill and bring it into force in accordance with a timetable agreed by the Ministerial Council.

9.5 If the amendment is passed through the Victorian Parliament, legislation of the States of New South Wales, Queensland, Western Australia, South Australia, and Tasmania and the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory will incorporate the changes by applying the amendment as a law of those jurisdictions. 

9.6 Any amendment to this Agreement will be made in writing and executed by all Parties, and will include the date on which the amendment will come into force.
10.	REVIEW OF THE SYSTEM
10.1 The Ministerial Council will initiate an independent public review of the operation of the national licensing system, including the legislation establishing the system, in accordance with the guidelines established by the Office of Best Practice Regulation, not earlier than five years from the commencement of the national licensing system and every 10 years thereafter.

10.2 The Ministerial Council will set the Terms of Reference for a review under clause 10.1.
11.	DISPUTE RESOLUTION IN RELATION TO THIS AGREEMENT
11.1 Where a dispute arises in the Ministerial Council under or in relation to this Agreement:
a. the Ministerial Council will negotiate to resolve the dispute in the first instance;  and
b. if negotiations fail, the Ministerial Council will refer the dispute to COAG to seek resolution.

11.2	Where a national licensing board dispute arises under or in relation to this Agreement and the matter is unable to be resolved by the Board, the matter is to be referred to the Ministerial Council.
12.	WITHDRAWAL AND CESSATION
12.1 	The Parties agree that withdrawal from the system will be a measure of last resort.

12.2 A Party that proposes to withdraw from this Agreement will notify each of the other Parties by giving at least 12 months written notice.

12.3 In the event of withdrawal from this Agreement by any one of the Parties, this Agreement will be rendered null and void except as otherwise agreed by the Ministerial Council.

12.4 In circumstances where a Party fails to comply with any of its obligations under this Agreement, the Ministerial Council shall consider whether the Party was not acting in good faith and to what extent, if any, this Agreement shall be rendered null and void. 

12.5 In circumstances where this Agreement is rendered null and void, responsibility for the licensing of the occupations covered by the system will revert to individual States and Territories.

12.6 This Agreement may be terminated at any time by agreement in writing by all of the Parties.
13.	TRANSITIONAL ARRANGEMENTS
13.1 A national licensing steering committee will be senior officers, nominated by First Minister's departments, and chaired by the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet, to advise the Ministerial Council on the implementation of the national licensing system and any required interim arrangements until such time as the national licensing board is operational, or as determined by the Ministerial Council.

13.2 A project team is to be established to support the national licensing steering committee and Ministerial Council in the implementation of the national licensing system until such a time as the national licensing board is operational, or as determined by the Ministerial Council.

13.3 As part of the implementation phase the steering committee and national licensing body must consult and take into account the views of relevant stakeholders in occupational areas including unions and employer groups, professional associations, consumer advocacy organisations, regulators, insurance peak bodies (where relevant) and the national training system on the development of the national licensing system.

13.4 Prior to commencement of the national licensing legislation interim advisory committees for each occupational area will be established to provide advice to the project team.

13.5 Where a national licensing steering committee meeting plans to consider licensing policy for a particular occupation, the steering committee will invite a representative of the interim advisory committee for that occupation to attend the steering committee meeting to discuss that item. 

13.6 Each interim advisory committee established will comprise one chair and an adequate number of general members to ensure the committee includes the range of expertise required to fulfil its function for an occupational area.

13.7 The interim advisory committee must comprise of expertise relevant to an occupational area across the fields of regulation, industry operations and practices (from both a union and employer perspective) safety, consumer advocacy, insurance (where relevant) and training.

13.8 The Chair of the Steering Committee will seek nominations for membership of interim advisory committees from relevant peak bodies, nationally based where possible, (unions, employer bodies and professional associations), consumer advocacy organisations, regulators, peak insurance bodies (where relevant) and national training system.  

13.9 The Parties may make amendments by agreement to the indicative implementation timetable at Attachment A, provided that the amendments are consistent with the Implementation Plan of the National Partnership Agreement To Deliver A Seamless National Economy.

13.10 Any amendments to the indicative implementation timetable that will alter the milestones specified in the Implementation Plan of the National Partnership Agreement to Deliver a Seamless National Economy must be in accordance with clause 11 of that National Partnership Agreement.



The Parties have confirmed their commitment to this agreement as follows:
Signed for and on behalf of the Commonwealth of Australia by
	
The Honourable Kevin Rudd MP
Prime Minister of the Commonwealth of Australia
30 April 2009Signed for and on behalf of the 
State of New South Wales by
	
The Honourable Nathan Rees MP
Premier of the State of New South Wales
30 April 2009Signed for and on behalf of the
State of Victoria by
	
The Honourable John Brumby MP
Premier of the State of Victoria
 2009Signed for and on behalf of the
State of Queensland by
	
The Honourable Anna Bligh MP
Premier of the State of Queensland
30 April 2009Signed for and on behalf of the
State of Western Australia by
	
The Honourable Colin Barnett MP
Premier of the State of Western Australia
30 April 2009Signed for and on behalf of the
State of South Australia by
	
The Honourable Mike Rann MP
Premier of the State of South Australia
30 April 2009Signed for and on behalf of the
State of Tasmania by
	
The Honourable David Bartlett MP
Premier of the State of Tasmania
30 April 2009Signed for and on behalf of the Australian Capital Territory by
	
Jon Stanhope MLA
Chief Minister of the Australian Capital Territory
30 April 2009Signed for and on behalf of the Northern Territory by
	
The Honourable Paul Henderson MLA
Chief Minister of the Northern Territory of Australia
30 April 2009

ATTACHMENT A 

NATIONAL LICENSING SYSTEM
INDICATIVE IMPLEMENTATION TIMETABLE
DATEACTIONEarly 20091IGA considered by COAG From February 2009 Consultations with stakeholders on next steps including legislation developmentFrom Apr 2009Establish interim advisory committees in relation to first wave occupations2 and preliminary consideration of licensing issuesJun 2009Bill drafting instructions finalised and approved by jurisdictionsSep 2009Draft Bill agreed by jurisdictionsOct 2009Draft Bill released for public consultation (8 weeks)Apr 2010Bill finalised and approved by Ministerial CouncilApr- Jun 2010Bill introduced into Parliament (host jurisdiction)By Apr 2010Establish interim advisory committees in relation to second wave occupations and preliminary consideration of licensing issuesJun 2010Act passed - commencement dates
* national licensing body - Jan 2011
* national licensing system - from 1 Jul 2012Nov 2010Acts amended in other States and Territory to give effect to national licensing schemeNov 2010Draft Regulations provided.  Regulations and Regulatory Impact Statement approved by Ministerial Council and provided to Office Best Practice Regulation, commence public consultation (8 weeks) Jan 2011National licensing body operationalThroughout 2011Interim advisory committees and stakeholder consultations under the National Licensing Body on national licence policy matters such as licence levels, eligibility criteria, disciplinary arrangements for first wave occupations - work also commences on second wave occupationsFeb 2011Regulations settled and approved by Ministerial CouncilJun 2011Regulations passed by host jurisdiction - commencement date from 1 Jul 2012Dec 2011States and Territories repeal existing legislation for occupational areas1 Jul 2012Commencement of national licensing scheme for first wave occupationsThroughout 2012Interim advisory committees and stakeholder consultations under the National Licensing Body on national licence policy matters such as licence levels, eligibility criteria, disciplinary arrangements for second wave occupationsAs soon as possible after 1 Jul 2013Commencement of national licensing scheme for second wave occupations
1 Bold dates represent key milestones.
2 It is expected that the 7 occupational areas for initial inclusion in the national licensing system will be phased into two groups - the first for introduction when the licensing system commences in 2012 and the second wave to commence in 2013.
??

??

??

??





15


2




