
Monash University ePress
Contributor agreement (single author)

Dateof2004Parties
1Monash University of Wellington Road, Clayton, Victoria 3800, Australia("the ePress")2 ("the Author")
Operative provisions
1 The Work
The Author is the owner of the entire copyright in the work entitled	
("the Work")
2 Grant of licence and option
2.1 In consideration of the ePress agreeing to publish the Work, the Author grants the ePress the exclusive licence to publish and distribute the Work in electronic and digital form worldwide for the full period of the copyright, to exploit the subsidiary rights listed and defined in Schedule 1A and to licence others to do any of these things.
2.2 The Author grants the ePress first option ("the Option") to take up an exclusive licence to publish and distribute the Work in print form worldwide for the full period of the copyright, to exploit the subsidiary rights listed and defined in Schedule 1B and to licence others to do any of these things. The Option may be exercised by the ePress by notice in writing to the Author at any time during a period of 12 months from the date of this agreement.
2.3 It is intended that the Work be published in a journal entitled The Bible and Critical Theory.
3 Moral rights
The Author acknowledges that in order to promote the Work, it may be necessary for the ePress to produce and distribute marketing material in print and/or electronic formats that includes adaptations or abridgements of the Work and the Author consents to the ePress doing any of these acts. The ePress agrees that it will not modify the Work for any purpose other than promotion without prior written permission from the Author. The Author agrees that permission will not be unreasonably withheld.
4 Author's warranties and indemnity
4.1 The author warrants that:
a. the Work is original, has not been published before (other than as an Preprint, defined in Schedule 1C) and is not being considered for publication elsewhere in either print or electronic form;
b. the source of any copyright materials in the Work has been acknowledged;
c. the Work does not infringe any copyright or other rights held by third parties and does not breach any duty of confidentiality or obligation of privacy and does not contain any material which is libellous, obscene or otherwise of an unlawful nature;
d. the Author who has signed this Agreement has full right, power and authority to enter into this agreement.
4.2 The Author will obtain, at the Author's expense, consents releases or permissions in relation to illustrations, photographs and other third party material used in the Work. The Author confirms that the benefit of all consents, releases or permissions obtained by the Author will extend to the benefit of the ePress throughout the Territory for the Term for which rights are granted to the ePress pursuant to this Agreement.
4.3 The author undertakes to indemnify the ePress against all actions, proceedings, claims, demands and costs arising directly or indirectly from any breach of the warranties contained in 4.1.
5 Rights granted back to the author
5.1 The ePress grants back to the Author the following rights:
a. The right to photocopy or make single electronic copies of the Work for the Author's own personal use, including the Author's own lecture or classroom use (excluding the preparation of course-pack material for onward sale by libraries and institutions), provided those copies are not offered for sale on a for-profit basis and are not distributed in any systematic way outside of the employing institution (for example, via an email list or public file server).
b. The right to post the Work on a secure network (not accessible to the public) within the institution that employs the Author.
c. The right to retain a Preprint, as defined in Schedule 1C, of the Work on a public electronic server such as the World Wide Web.
d. The right, subsequent to publication by the ePress, to use the Work, or any part thereof, free of charge in a printed compilation of works of the Author's own, such as collected writings or lecture notes.
e. The right to include the Work in a thesis or dissertation provided that this is not to be published commercially.
f. The right to present the Work at a meeting or conference and to hand copies of the paper to the delegates attending the meeting or conference.
g. The right to re-use parts of the Work in other works, provided that the other work is not to be published commercially.
6 Copyright notice
6.1 Where the Work has been published by the ePress the Author undertakes to:
a. add the following notice to the documents listed in subclause 6.2   
This material has been published by Monash University ePress in The Bible and Critical Theory [insert volume number, issue number, date of publication, doi]. Monash University ePress is the definitive repository of the content that has been certified and accepted after peer review.
You may copy the material onto a single computer and make a print copy for your personal use only. For any other use, prior written permission must be obtained from Monash University ePress, Monash University, Wellington Road, Clayton, Victoria 3800, Australia.
b. where technically possible, add-to any electronic versions of the documents listed in subclauses 6.2(a), (b), (d), (e), and (g)-a link to the definitive version of the Work as made available online by the ePress. The Author should contact the ePress for instructions on the text required to create the link.
6.2 The following documents must carry the copyright notice in subclause 6.1:
a. any copies (photocopied or electronic) of the Work created and distributed by the Author for the Author's own lecture or classroom use under the terms of clause 5.1(a) 
b. the Work as posted by the Author on a secure network under the terms of clause 5.1(b)
c. the Work, or any part thereof, included by the Author in a printed compilation of works of the Author's own under the terms of clause 5.1(d)
d. the Work, included by the Author in an article in a thesis or dissertation under the terms of clause 5.1(e)
e. the Work, as presented by the Author at a meeting or conference, or handed out by the Author to the delegates attending the meeting or conference, under the terms of clause 5.1(f)
f. parts of the Work included by the Author in other works under the terms of clause 5.1(g)
6.3 Where the Work has been published by the ePress and a Preprint existed prior to such publication, the Author undertakes to add the following notice to any copies (photocopied or electronic) of the Preprint made and distributed by the Author after publication of the Work by the ePress:
This is the author's version of the work. The definitive version has been published in The Bible and Critical Theory [insert volume number, issue number, date of publication, doi], published by Monash University ePress.
7 Permissions
All requests to reuse the Work, in whole or in part, in another publication (including in all commercially published edited Works) will be handled by the ePress. Any permissions fees will be retained by the ePress. All requests to use or include substantial parts of the Work in another publication (including publications of the ePress) will be subject to the Author's approval, which is deemed to be given if we have not heard from the Author within 4 weeks from the date of the ePress writing to the Author at the Author's last notified address.
8 Entire agreement
This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement between the parties and supersedes all prior representations, statements and understandings whether verbal or in writing.
9 Governing law
This agreement shall be governed by the laws of the state of Victoria.
SIGNED for and on behalf of MONASH UNIVERSITY ePRESS by



(signature)	(date)



(print name)



SIGNED by the Author



(signature)	(date)


(print name)





Schedule 1: Definitions
A: Subsidiary rights - electronic
"Anthology and Quotation Rights" means the exclusive right to authorise the reproduction of extracts and quotations from the Work (including illustrations diagrams and maps contained in the Work) in other electronic publications;
"First Serial Rights" means the exclusive right to authorise the publication of extracts of the Work in one issue or more than one successive or non-successive issue of an electronic publication;
"New Technology Rights" means the exclusive right to use, store, reproduce all or any part of the Work, with other works or subject matter (including products of other publishers) by means of CDR, Cdi, computer technology or any other technology now known or subsequently discovered in any format and delivered to a user by any means whatsoever;
"Online Rights" means the exclusive right to communicate the Work to the public on any service for carrying or transmitting data and/or communications by means of guided or unguided electromagnetic energy or both, including the Internet, accessible by any receiver; 
"Promotion Rights" means the right to use and to authorise others to use, by any means in all media including but not limited to an Online Service or Website, excerpts from the Work in connection with the publicity and promotion of the Work;
"Sound Recording Rights" means the exclusive right to authorise the making of a recording of the Work and the provision of multiple copies in CD-Rom, minidisk or other digital formats and transmission via the Internet;
"Term" means the full period of the copyright;
"Territory" means worldwide;
"Translation Rights" means the exclusive right to authorise the making and exploitation in electronic format of the Work in foreign languages;
"Website" means a page or pages on the world wide web and includes the Internet;
"Website Rights" means the exclusive right to create a website relating to the Work or include the work in a Website created by another publisher.
B: Subsidiary rights - print
"Anthology and Quotation Rights" means the exclusive right to authorise the reproduction of extracts and quotations from the Work (including illustrations, diagrams and maps contained in the Work) in other print publications;
"First Serial Rights" means the exclusive right to authorise the publication of extracts of the Work in one issue or more than one successive or non-successive issue of a print publication;
"Promotion Rights" means the right to use and to authorise others to use, by any means in all media including but not limited to an Online Service or Website, excerpts from the Work in connection with the publicity and promotion of the Work;
"Sound Recording Rights" means the exclusive right to authorise the making of a recording of the Work and the provision of multiple copies in CD-Rom, minidisk or other digital formats and transmission via the Internet;
"Term" means the full period of the ccopyright;
"Territory" means worldwide;
"Translation Rights" means the exclusive right to authorise the making and exploitation in print format of the Work in foreign languages.
C: Preprint
"Preprint" means an unrefereed draft of a Work published by the Author on the internet.



Monash University ePress
Bld 4, Monash University
Clayton  VIC  3800
Australiap. 1/4Contributor Agreement - single author

