
CONFIDENTIALITY AGREEMENT

The Parties to this agreement are: WESTERN PACIFIC SOLAR LTD (ACN 119 142 291) of 23 MARRIOT WAY, MORLEY, WA, 6062, AUSTRALIA and/or its wholly owned subsidiary companies hereinafter referred to as "WPS", and 													 and/or its subsidiary companies, affiliates, agents and advisers, hereinafter referred to as "Recipient".   	
 
INTRODUCTION
The Recipient wishes to obtain, and/or has obtained, access to certain proprietary, confidential information regarding WPS projects and/or intended projects, theoretical ideas, data, types of equipment and/or its employment, hereinafter referred to as "information", in order to enable the Recipient to evaluate, finance, or implement, in any way, the information. 

1. Agreement

Whereas, WPS has, in good faith, previously provided much of the referenced information to the Recipient, it is understood that all of the previously given information, by WPS to Recipient, is considered confidential information and is covered/included under/in this agreement. 

The parties wish to enter into this agreement to conform to WPS's requirements to preserve the confidentiality of that information as well as to preserve the confidentiality of any further information used in any way or manner, in accordance with this Agreement, by the Recipient.

1.1     The Definitions and Interpretations of this agreement are as follows: 
"Agreement" includes the entire document, including any schedule or annexure to it.

"Approved Purposes" means evaluation of the Project, the making of a decision whether or not to participate in the Project and negotiation of a formal agreement concerning the Project.

"Business Day" means a day that is not a Saturday. Sunday or any other day which is a public holiday or Bank Holiday in the place where an act is to be performed;

"Confidential Information" means information of every kind including, but not limited to any and all information found on or downloaded from, www.wpsolar.com and information concerning or in any way connected with, the project, the subject matter of any WPS Project, WPS, any of WPS Related Bodies Corporate, the Funding Mechanisms, the property of WPS or any of its related bodies Corporate or other; and which is disclosed in writing, orally or by any other means by WPS or by any person on behalf of WPS to the Recipient or an employee, officer or agent of the Recipient; or comes to the knowledge of the Recipient or an employee, officer or agent of the Recipient by any means.

"Funding Mechanisms" means the funding contracts, methods and data relating to the Project;

"Improvements" means all technical information including all inventions and or proprietary concepts relating to the project developed or acquired by or on behalf of the Recipient or an employee, officer or agent of the Recipient subsequent to the date of this agreement; all forms of information and intellectual property that originate with or are acquired by the Recipient before WPS knows them relating to the Project;  
                              
"Project" means:  WPS  and WP Solar and the  Power Dish and all Related Products and Processes", 

"Notes" means notes which relate to, summaries and copies of, and extracts from any Confidential Information whether in documentary, visual, machine readable or other form and "related Corporate Body" has the meaning given in section 9 of Corporations Law.

1.2     Reference to; One gender includes the others, the singular includes the plural and the plural includes the singular; A person includes a body corporate: A party includes the party's executors, administrators, successors and permitted assigns; and "agent" includes financial advisers, solicitors and other advisers.

"Including" and similar expressions are not words of limitation. Where a word or expression is given a particular meaning, other parts of speech and grammatical forms of that word or expression have a corresponding meaning.

Headings are for convenience only and do not form part of this agreement or affect its interpretation. A provision of this agreement must not be construed to the disadvantage of a party merely because that party was responsible for the preparation of the agreement or the inclusion of the provision in the agreement.
                                                                   
1.3     If a party consists of more than 1 person, this agreement binds each of them separately and any 2 or more of them jointly. An obligation, representation or warranty in favor of more than 1 person is for the benefit of them separately and jointly. A party, which is a trustee, is bound both personally and in its capacity as a trustee
                                                         
 2.0     The consideration for the Recipient entering into this agreement is the provision of Confidential Information by WPS to the recipient.

3. Confidentiality

3.1     The Recipient acknowledges and confirms that at all times it is and was understood and agreed to, with WPS, that WPS will provide the Confidential Information to the Recipient on the terms set herein.

3.2     The Recipient shall maintain and take all steps necessary to maintain all Confidential Information and all notes in strictest confidence; ensure that proper and secure storage is provided for the Confidential Information and all Notes while in the possession or under the control of the Recipient the Recipient shall; Take all precautions necessary to prevent accidental disclosure of any of the Confidential Information or any of the Notes; Not disclose any of the Confidential Information or Notes to any person other than those of the Recipient's employees, officers and agents who are required to receive and consider the Confidential Information in the course of (and solely for the purpose of) the Approved Purposes; Use Confidential Information and Notes only as necessary in connection with the Approved Purposes; Not make Notes or allow Notes to be made except as necessary in connection with the Approved Purposes; Keep confidential the fact that Confidential Information has been provided by WPS to the Recipient and not allow express or implied disclose of the existence of the Confidential Information or Notes.

3.3     WPS does not impose obligations on the Recipient concerning Confidential Information, which the Recipient proves to the reasonable satisfaction of WPS at the date of this agreement, is publicly available; or subsequent to the date of this agreement becomes publicly available without breach of this agreement; or the Recipient obtained from a third party without breach by that third party of any obligation of confidence concerning that Confidential Information, or was already in the Recipient's possession (as evidenced by written records) when provided by or on behalf of WPS.

3.4     It is not a breach of clause 3.2 for the Recipient to disclose Confidential Information or Notes which it is obliged by law or court order to disclose.
                                                                  
 4. Employees, Agents and Shareholders

4.1     The Recipient must; Ensure that all of its employees, officers, agents or shareholders who already have access or will receive or will have access to Confidential Information are bound in the same manner and to the same extent as the Recipient is bound by this agreement, as though they were the Recipient, by a deed in favor of WPS which applies to all Confidential Information and Notes and which is on the same terms and conditions (with necessary changes) as are contained in this agreement; Use its best endeavors to cause all of its employees, officers, agents or shareholders who receive or have access to Confidential Information or Notes to observe all of the Recipient's obligations and undertakings contained in this agreement and the deeds referred to in clause 4.1; Give notice to WPS, before allowing any other employees, officers ,agents or shareholders to have access to Confidential Information, of their identity; and from time to time when requested by WPS, immediately supply WPS with a list of the persons to whom Confidential Information has been disclosed;  Provide confirmation that those persons have entered into written deeds as provided by this agreement and, if requested by WPS, copies of those deeds.

5. Return of Confidential Information

5.1     The Recipient must return all documents and other media which contain Confidential Information and deliver all Notes to WPS and delete all Notes electronically stored immediately as requested by WPS.

5.2     The Recipient must also at the same time as it returns the documents and Notes referred to in clause 5.1, ensure that its officers and employees return any of the Documents, details and Notes held by them including all Notes electronically stored.

6. Notice in Case of Forced Disclosure

6.1     If the Recipient is required, or anticipates or has cause to anticipate that it may be required, by law or court order to disclose Confidential Information or Notes, the Recipient must immediately notify WPS of the actual or anticipated requirement and use its best endeavors (without breach of applicable law) to delay, without disclosure, until WPS has a reasonable opportunity to oppose disclosure by lawful means.

6.2     If the Recipient is required by law or court order to disclose Confidential Information or Notes to any person the Recipient must, before disclosure, notify that person of the existence of this agreement and the Recipient's obligation of confidence.
                                            

7. Acknowledgments

7.1     The Recipient acknowledges that it is making an independent evaluation of the project and assessment of the Confidential Information and that it must verify all information upon which it intends to rely to its own satisfaction and any opinions expressed in the Confidential Information are based on the knowledge and approach of the persons forming the opinion at the date that the opinion was formed, and that it may not be appropriate in the light of subsequent knowledge or attitudes. 

8. Disclaimers

8.1     None of WPS, its Related Bodies Corporate or any of their respective employees, officers or agents makes any representation, or gives any warranty or assurance that the Confidential Information does not infringe the right of other persons or as to the accuracy or completeness of the Confidential Information; Except that the Confidential Information is disclosed to the Recipient in good faith. WPS is not liable for loss of any kind including damages, costs, interest, loss of profit or special loss or damage arising from any infringement, inaccuracy or incompleteness in the Confidential Information (except if the Confidential Information is not disclosed to the Recipient in good faith); or is not responsible for any interpretation, opinion or conclusion that the Recipient forms as a result of examining the Confidential Information.

9. Remedies

9.1     The Recipient acknowledges that: the Confidential Information and improvements are at all times the property of WPS; a breach of this agreement would be harmful to the business interests of WPS and monetary damages alone would not be a sufficient remedy for a breach of this agreement; and in addition to any other remedy which may be available in law or equity WPS is entitled to interim, interlocutory and permanent injunctions or any of them to prevent breach of this agreement and to compel specific performance of it.
                                                                                 
10. Audit

10.1     For 2 years after the date of this agreement in the circumstances described in clause 10.2 WPS is entitled to appoint an appropriately qualified independent assessor and the Recipient, within reason and with reasonable notice, must allow the independent assessor to have access to all of its related records, materials and business premises in order to determine whether there has been a breach of this agreement.

10.2     WPS is entitled to make an appointment under clause 10.1 if it has reasonable ground to suspect that the Recipient has committed a breach of this agreement.
                                                
10.3     The independent assessor appointed under clause 10.1 is not obliged to reveal to WPS any information which is confidential to the Recipient which comes into his or her possession, but may use it to enable him or her to supply a report to WPS as to whether the Recipient has committed a breach of this agreement. The Recipient may require the independent assessor to enter into a confidentiality agreement in reasonable terms to observe the provisions of this clause 10.3.

10.4     If the independent assessor report finds that the Recipient has made use of Confidential Information in violation of this agreement, WPS may further require the independent assessor to make a fair assessment of the importance of the Confidential Information to the work in which it is used by the Recipient and WPS is entitled to share in the benefits of the work as reasonably determined by the independent assessor.

10.5     The provisions of clause 10.4 are in addition to the other remedies of WPS.

10.6     The assessment and report by the independent assessor under this provision (10) are as an expert and not as an arbitrator and his or her determinations are conclusive and binding upon the parties.

11. Indemnity

11.1     The Recipient indemnifies WPS against; all losses suffered by WPS, all Liabilities incurred by WPS; and the cost of all demands, action and other proceedings against WPS (including legal cost on a solicitor and client bases); arising directly or indirectly as a result of or in connection with any breach or non-performance of: The obligations of the Recipient whether express or implied under this agreement; and the obligations of any employee, officer or agent of the Recipient whether express or implied.

11.2     This indemnity extends to liabilities incurred by WPS under or in connection with any agreement by which WPS is bound concerning Confidential Information.

11.3     The Recipient must pay to WPS all liabilities and costs referred to in clause 11.1 whether or not WPS has paid or satisfied them.

12. Continuation of Obligations

12.1     The Recipient obligations and undertakings continue indefinitely and are not diminished or terminated by the marking or completion of an agreement concerning the project.

12.2	The Recipient's obligations and undertakings are for the benefit of and are enforceable by WPS and its successors and assigns and are binding on the Recipient and its successors.

13. Improvements

13.1     The Recipient and any of its respective employees, officers or agents must promptly communicate in writing to WPS details of the specifications of any improvements.

13.2      The Recipient and any of its respective employees, officers and agents assign to WPS all of their respective rights, title and interest in the improvements.

14. Restrictive Covenant 

14.1     The Recipient acknowledges that as a consequence of receiving the Confidential Information and evaluating the project, the recipient may gain a material advantage, which it could, but for the obligations of confidentiality imposed by the Agreement and the obligation under this clause, exploit for its own benefit.

14.2     In addition to the obligation of confidentiality set out in the Agreement, without the prior consent of WPS, the Recipient must not, while in possession of or having access to the Confidential Information or for a period specified in clause 14.3, engage or be concerned or interested in any business agreement, arrangement, venture, project, proposal or undertaking the same as or similar to the Project.

14.3     The restriction under clause 14.2 is for the period of, and for the term of 3 years following the period after ceasing to have possession of or access to the Confidential Information.  

14.4     The Recipient's agreement in clause 14.2 applies to it acting, either alone or in partnership or association with another person, as a principal, agent, representative, through a Related Body Corporate, or in any other capacity.

14.5     Clauses 14.2 and 14.3 and 14.4 have effect as comprising each of the separate provisions which result from each combination of a capacity referred to in clause 14.4, a period referred to in clause 14.3 and a category of conduct referred to in clause 14.2. Each of these separate provisions operates concurrently and independently.

14.6	If any separate provision referred to in clauses 14.2, 14.3 and 14.4 is unenforceable illegal or void that provision is severed and the other provisions remain in force. The parties acknowledge that each of those separate provisions is fair and reasonable, and not a restraint of trade.
                                                
14.7     Clause 14.4 does not preclude the Recipient from owning marketable securities of a corporation or trust undertaking conduct referred to in clause 14.2 which are listed on a recognized stock exchange in Australia or elsewhere provided that the party holds no more than 15% of the total marketable securities of the corporation or trust. 

15. Assignment

15.1     The Recipient may not assign or otherwise deal with the whole or any part of this agreement except with the prior written consent of WPS. WPS is not required to consent or to justify the withholding of consent.

16. Entire Understanding

16.1      This Agreement is the entire agreement and understanding between the parties on all matters connected with the subject matter of this agreement and supersedes any prior agreement or understanding or anything connected with that subject matter.

16.2     Each party has entered into this agreement without relying on any representation by any other party or any person purporting to represent that party.

17. Waiver
 
17.1     WPS's failure or delay to exercise a power or right does not operate as a waiver of that power or right.

17.2     The exercise, by WPS, of a power or right does not preclude either its exercise in the future or the exercise of any other power or right by WPS.

17.3      A waiver is not effective unless it is in writing. 

17.4     Waiver of a power or right is effective only in respect of the specific instance to which it relates and for the specific purpose for which it is given.

18. Variation

18.1     An amendment or variation to this agreement is not effective unless it is signed by the parties.



19. Notice

19.1     A notice with this Agreement ("Notice") has no legal effect unless it is in writing.

19.2      In addition to any other method of service provided by law, the Notice may be: sent by prepaid registered post to the address for service of the addressee, if the address is in United States of America and the notice is sent from within the United States of America; Sent by prepaid airmail to the address for service of the addressee, if the address is outside of The United States of America or if the Notice is sent from outside The United States of America; Sent by facsimile to the facsimile number of the addressee; or delivered at the address for service of the addressee.

19.3      	

The Address for service to WPS and facsimile are:
Name		: Western Pacific International Ltd and or WP Solar
Attention	: Mr Brian W. Ivey  or Mr Patrick. V. Kennedy (USA)
Address	: 23 Marriot Way, Morley, Western Australia, 6052
		: Australia
Facsimile No	: + 1 254 559 4088 

19.4		

The Recipient address for service and facsimile number are:
Name		:							
Attention	:							
Address	:								
		:									
Facsimile No	:							

















20. Governing Law and Jurisdiction

20.1     The parties submit to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of the courts of Western Australia and The Federal Court of Australia, or the Courts of Texas and the Federal Supreme Court of The United States of America.                                                                 

EXECUTED as an agreement.                     Dated				 		

Western Pacific International Ltd 		)
ACN 119 142 291 in accordance with	)
Section 127 of the Corporation Law  		)


____________________________________				
Signature of the Director for Western Pacific International Ltd.

____________________________________				
Printed Name 

						Dated				 2006

						)
						)
						)
						)

_____________________________________________________			
Signature of the Recipient

____________________________________						
Printed Name 

Witnessed By (Name, Address and Status)



1


