








THE DISTRICT ALLOWANCE (GOVERNMENT OFFICERS) GENERAL AGREEMENT 2005
PSAAG 27 OF 2005













1. 
 TITLE
This General Agreement shall be known as the District Allowance (Government Officers) General Agreement 2005.
ARRANGEMENT
Title
Arrangement
Definition
Purpose of General Agreement
Application and Parties Bound
Term of General Agreement
No Further Claims
District Allowance
Review
Dispute Settlement Procedure
Award Updating
Signature of Parties
DEFINITIONS
For the purposes of the General Agreement, the following definitions shall apply:
"Agency" means a respondent listed in Schedule A;
"Award" means the Awards listed in Schedule B;
"District Allowance" is the allowance prescribed in this agreement in substitution of the rates for district allowance prescribed in the awards listed in Schedule B.
"Employees" means persons employed by the respondents listed in Schedule A who are members of or who are eligible to be members of the unions respondent to this agreement;
"Employer" means the Agencies listed in Schedule A which includes the Minister for Health as provided under Sec 7 of the Hospitals and Health Services Act 1927 (WA) and Employer means the President, acting on the recommendation of the Director General, is the employer of each electorate employee appointed to assist:
a member of the Legislative Council in dealing with constituency matters;  or
the secretary of a parliamentary political party who is a member of the Legislative Council and
the Speaker, acting on the recommendation of the Director General, is the employer of each electorate employee appointed to assist:
a member of the Legislative Assembly in dealing with constituency matters;  or
the secretary of a parliamentary political party who is a member of the Legislative Assembly.
"General Agreement" means the District Allowance (Government) General Agreement 2005;
"WAIRC" means the Western Australian Industrial Relations Commission.
"Union" means Unions party to this agreement.
2. PURPOSE OF GENERAL AGREEMENT
The parties agree that the purpose of the General Agreement is to:
effect District Allowance increases on an interim basis in accordance with the General Agreement, for employees bound by the General Agreement; and
provide for the parties to undertake a substantive review of District Allowance.
3. APPLICATION AND PARTIES BOUND
The parties bound by the General Agreement are the agencies listed in schedule A and the unions party to the General Agreement
The General Agreement shall apply to all employees who are members of or eligible to be members of the unions.  At the date of registration, the approximate number of employees bound by the General Agreement is 2450.
4. TERM OF GENERAL AGREEMENT
The General Agreement shall operate from the date of registration in accordance with Section 41 of the Industrial Relations Act 1979 and will expire on 30 June 2007.
The parties to the General Agreement agree to re-open negotiations for a replacement General Agreement at least three (3) months prior to the expiry of the General Agreement with a view to implement a replacement General Agreement operative from 1 July 2007.
5. NO FURTHER CLAIMS
The parties to the General Agreement undertake that for the term of the General Agreement there will be no increases sought or granted other than those provided under the terms of the General Agreement.
The parties to the General Agreement undertake that for the term of the General Agreement there will be no further claims on matters contained in the General Agreement.
6. DISTRICT ALLOWANCE
The General Agreement rates in Schedule C shall replace the District Allowance rates in the awards specified in Schedule B effective from the 1st pay period commencing on or after 1 July 2005.
The parties to the General Agreement agree that the rates specified in Schedule C shall be adjusted administratively from the 1 July 2006 in accordance with the official Consumer Price Index for Perth as published for the preceding 12 months at the end of the March quarter 2006 by the Australian Bureau of Statistics.
7. REVIEW
The parties agree that they will jointly:
agree on a methodology for a substantive review of district allowances;
establish a working party to oversee the substantive review; and
commit to an established time frame to commence and undertake the substantive review.
The parties agree that the working party will be established and meet within 3         months of the registration of this agreement to progress the substantive review referred to in Cl 9.1 and the review will be completed within 18 months of the date of the first meeting of the working party.
8. DISPUTE SETTLEMENT PROCEDURE
Any questions, difficulties or disputes arising in the course of the employment of employees covered by the General Agreement shall be dealt with in accordance with this clause.
The employee/s and the manager with whom the dispute has arisen shall discuss the matter and attempt to find a satisfactory solution, within three (3) working days.  An employee may be accompanied by a union representative.
If the dispute cannot be resolved at this level, the matter shall be referred to and be discussed with the relevant manager's superior and an attempt made to find a satisfactory solution, within a further three (3) working days.  An employee may be accompanied by a union representative.
If the dispute is still not resolved, it may be referred by the employee/s or union representative to the employer or his/her nominee.
Where the dispute cannot be resolved within five (5) working days of the union representatives' referral of the dispute to the employer or his/her nominee, either party may refer the matter to the WAIRC.
The period for resolving a dispute may be extended by agreement between the parties.
At all stages of the procedure the employee may be accompanied by a union representative.


9. AWARD UPDATING
The parties agree to use the provisions of section 40A of the Industrial Relations Act 1979 to vary the awards to which this agreement applies to reflect the rates in effect from 1 July 2006 as provided for in Cl 8.2




10. 
SIGNATURE OF PARTIES

Signed										1/12/2005
............................................................                Date.........................................
Toni Walkington 
General Secretary
The Civil Service Association of Western Australia (inc)

Signed									28/11/2005
............................................................	Date.........................................
Dan Hill
Secretary
Health Services Union of Western Australia (Union of Workers)


Signed									28/11/2005
...........................................................                 Date.........................................
Graham Baker
President
Health Services Union of Western Australia (Union of Workers)

Signed									8/12/05
..........................................................                   Date.......................................
Jeff Radisich
Executive Director
Department of Consumer and Employment Protection
Acting as Agent for each Employing Authority listed in Schedule A


	









                                 SCHEDULE A

                                    Respondency List

Agriculture Dept of
Auditor General Office of the
Community Development Dept of
Conservation and Land Management
Consumer and Employment Protection Dept of
Culture and the Arts Dept of
Curriculum Council
Economic Regulation Authority
Education and Training Dept of
Education Services Dept of
Electoral Commission Western Australian
Energy Office of
Environment, Dept of
Equal Opportunity Commission
Fisheries Dept of
Gascoyne Development Commission
Goldfields Esperance Development Commission
Government Employees Superannuation Board
Health Dept of
Health Review Office of
Housing & Works Dept of
Indigenous Affairs Dept of
Insurance Commission of Western Australia
Department of the Registrar - Western Australian Industrial Relations Commission
Industry & Resources, Department of
Information Commissioner Office of the
Inspector of Custodial Services Office of the
Justice Dept of
Kimberley Development Commission
Land Information Dept of
Law Reform Commission
Local Government and Regional Development Dept of
Meat Industry Authority
Mid West Development Commission
Peel Development Commission
Pilbara Development Commission
South West Development Commission
Great Southern Development Commission
Planning and Infrastructure Dept for
Police Service
Premier & Cabinet Dept of the
Public Prosecutions Office of Director of
Public Sector Standards Commissioner Office of the
Racing Gaming & Liquor Dept of
Rottnest Island Authority
Sport & Recreation Dept of
State Supply Commission
Treasury & Finance Dept of
Water & Rivers Commission
Western Coastal Shipping Commission
Wheatbelt Development Commission
WorkCover Western Australian Authority


Conservation & Land Management
Curriculum Council
Disability Services Commission
Animal Resources Authority
Botanic Gardens and Parks Authority
Builders Registration Board
Building and Construction Industry Training Fund
Burswood Park Board
C Y O'Connor College of TAFE
Central TAFE
Central West College of TAFE
Challenger TAFE
Conservation Commission
Construction Industry LSL Board
Country High Schools Authority
Dental Health Service
Drug & Alcohol Office
East Perth Redevelopment Authority
Eastern Goldfields Transport Board
Egg Marketing Board
Fire and Emergency Services Authority
Forest Products Commission
Gold Corporation
Great Southern TAFE
Greyhound Racing Authority
Hairdressers Registration Board of WA
Health Promotion Foundation WA
Kimberley TAFE
Landcorp
Legal Aid Western Australia
Lotteries Commission
Main Roads Western Australia
Metropolitan Cemeteries Board
National Trust of Australia (WA)
Nurses Board
Ombudsman
Painters Registration Board
Perth Market Authority
Pilbara TAFE
Potato Marketing Corporation
Racing and Wagering Western Australia
Small Business Development Corporation
South West Regional TAFE
Sports Centre Trust
Swan TAFE
Tourism Western Australian 
West Coast TAFE
Zoological Gardens Board 
The Minister for Health in his incorporated capacity under s.7 of the Hospitals and Health Services Act 1927 (WA) as : the Hospitals formerly comprised in the Metropolitan Health Service Board, the Peel Health Services Board,the South West Health Board,the WA Country Health Service
The Hon Speaker of the Legislative Assembly
The Hon President of the Legislative Council


SCHEDULE B


Government Officers (Social Trainers) Award 1988
Government Officers (State Government Insurance Commission) Award PSAA 21 of 1986.
Government Officers' Salaries, Allowance and Conditions Award 1989.
Public Service Award 1992
Hospital Salaried Officers Award 1968.
Institution Officers Allowance and Conditions Award 1977
Education Department Ministerial Officers Salaries and Allowances and Conditions Award 1983.
.Department for Community Development (Family Resource Workers, Welfare Assistants and Parent Helpers) Award 1990.
Electorate Officers Award 1986
Country High Schools Hostels Authority Residential College Supervisory Staff Award 2005
Graylands Selby-Lemnos and Special Care Health Services Award 1999




SCHEDULE C - DISTRICT ALLOWANCECOLUMNCOLUMN COLUMNCOLUMN1II IIIIVDISTRICT NOSTANDARD RATE EXCEPTIONS TO STANDARDRATE$ p.a.RATE$ p.a.   TOWN OR PLACE 64,062NilNil52,920Fitzroy Crossing5,992Halls Creek4,314Nullagine4,463Marble Bar5,154Karratha3,438Port Hedland3,19942,508Warburton Mission4,166Carnarvon1,490Denham        2318Eucla3,86932,370Meekatharra1,956Leonora2,74222,179Kalgoorlie / Boulder978Ravensthorpe2,221Esperance1,2031NilJerramungup2,179The allowances prescribed in this Schedule shall operate from the beginning ofthe first pay period commencing on or after July 1 2005.
















