





















PANEL AGREEMENT

FOR

THE PROVISION OF PLANT HIRE



PANEL AGREEMENT FOR THE PROVISION OF PLANT HIRE

1.	OBJECTIVE AND SCOPE 

The Parties agree that:
(a) The Contractor is a member of Panel of Providers ("Panel") that has been established by the Principal to provide the hire of plant as described in the Specification;
(b) The Principal may select any member of the Panel to provide the Services; and
(c) If selected by the Principal, the Contractor shall provide the Services upon the terms and conditions of this Agreement.

2.	DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATIONS

In this Agreement:
"Agreement" means the agreement between the Principal and the Contractor, and comprises of the documents listed in the "Schedule of Agreement Documents"..
"Contractor" means the person, firm, partnership, company or other legal entity who as a party to this Agreement is bound to execute the service in accordance with this Agreement.
"Principal" means the person so described in the Annexure.
"Superintendent" means the person so described as such in the Annexure.
"Services" includes the hire of plant for construction or maintenance and may be with or without an operator.

Should any ambiguity or discrepancy be discovered in any document under the Agreement, the Superintendent shall direct the Contractor and Principal as to the interpretation.

3.	SUPERINTENDENT

The Principal shall appoint a Superintendent and any direction of the Superintendent pursuant to this Agreement shall be binding on the Contractor.  The Superintendent may appoint, in writing, a Superintendent's Representative to exercise any function of the Superintendent under the Agreement.

A direction may be given orally but the Superintendent shall as soon as practicable confirm it in writing.

4.	QUOTATIONS

The Superintendent may:
(a) request that all or any members of the Panel provide a quotation for the provision of the Services, notwithstanding that pre-agreed rates may form part of this Agreement;
(b) seek quotations from providers not on the Panel; and
(c) appoint new providers as members of the Panel.

The Principal is not obliged to engage the Contractor to provide any Services during the term of this Agreement.  If the Principal engages the Contractor to provide Services and does not seek a quotation, the Services shall be paid for at any pre-agreed rates forming part of this Agreement.

Notwithstanding any methodology of allocating work or ranking Panel members which has been specified in the Specification, the Principal may adjust the methodology or ranking as a consequence of the Contractor's  performance or availability to perform the Works.

5.	ASSIGNMENT AND SUBCONTRACTING

The Contractor shall not assign the Agreement or subcontract the whole or any part of the work under the Agreement without the prior written approval of the Superintendent. Subcontracting does not relieve the Contractor of its responsibility and liability under the Agreement.



6.	INSURANCE

The Contractor, before commencing work on the site, shall hold or effect a policy of insurance covering public liability to an amount of not less than the amount stated in the Annexure.

The policy shall be maintained for the term of this Agreement.  The Contractor shall, on request of the Superintendent, promptly produce evidence of the insurance required under this Clause.  If the Contractor does not provide satisfactory evidence of compliance, the Principal may effect the relevant insurances and any costs and expenses incurred by the Principal in doing so will be a debt due and payable from the Contractor to the Principal.  The Principal may withhold payment until evidence of compliance with the Contractor's obligations under this clause is produced by the Contractor.

7.	PROVISION OF PLANT

The Contractor shall:
(a) comply with all legislative and DTEI Occupational Health, Safety and Welfare requirements, including:
* equipping the plant with an audible reversing warning device and any other safety equipment necessary to comply with AS 1742.3 or applicable legislation;
* providing Safe Operating Procedures for the plant;
(b) ensure that the plant is registered and fitted with registration plates to clearly identify it if the plant is to be driven on public roads;
(c) undertake scheduled servicing and maintenance off site and outside normal working hours ensuring the plant maintains productivity and operational efficiency;
(d) make available daily check sheets for each day the plant is engaged;
(e) make available upon request service records relating to the maintenance, servicing and operation of the plant; and
(f) supply and store all fuel, oil, grease, replacement parts and all other things necessary for the continuous and efficient operation of the plant.

8.	OPERATION OF PLANT

Where plant is provided with an operator, the Contractor shall ensure that all operators:
(a) comply with DTEI safety systems and any site specific Hazard Management Plans or Safety Plans; 
(b) are supplied with personal protective equipment and the operators wear the equipment;
(c) have all appropriate licences and certificates and are trained in the operation of the plant;
(d) comply with the requirements of all relevant legislation, awards and the lawful requirements of the public or other authorities affecting the work under this Agreement; 
(e) minimise detrimental effects on the environment and work in accordance with DTEI "Environmental Code of Practice for Construction" and any DTEI Environmental Management Plan; and
(f) co-operate with any other contractors and DTEI employees during the course of work.

Relevant DTEI management procedures and plans are attached as appendices.

9.	CHANGE OF PLANT OR OPERATOR

Where the Services include the provision of an operator, the Contractor shall use its best endeavours to provide the nominated operator.  The Contractor shall notify the Superintendent of any change of the nominated operator.

The Contractor shall not remove the operator or plant from a worksite without the approval of the Superintendent.


The Contractor may only change the nominated plant for mechanical or other bona fide reasons approved by the Superintendent and only after ensuring that:
(a) the Superintendent has been notified in writing of a proposed change, indicating registration numbers for both the plant being replaced and its replacement; and
(b) the replacement plant is of at least equal capacity to the one being replaced.
The replacement plant shall operate at the rates tendered for the original one. Any plant used as a replacement shall be inspected and approved by the Superintendent prior to use.  A further inspection may also be undertaken during the term of the Agreement.

10.	TERM

This Agreement shall commence on the date of execution of this Agreement and expire upon the Expiry Date as specified in the Annexure, unless terminated earlier in accordance with this Agreement.  The parties may extend the Agreement by mutual agreement.

11.	PAYMENT

The Principal will pay the Contractor an amount ascertained by multiplying the applicable rate in the Schedule of Rates by the quantities certified by the Superintendent on timesheets or cart notes. Unless specified otherwise in the Schedule of Rates, rates shall include all associated running costs (e.g. accommodation and establishment).

Payment will not be made for any period the plant is rendered idle due to breakdown, damage, theft, servicing and repairs or for reasons within the Contractor's control.

Unless the Superintendent agrees otherwise, the Contractor shall submit invoices at monthly intervals. Within 14 days of receipt of a claim, the Superintendent shall:
(a) assess the claim;
(b) determine the value of the Services provided by the Contractor; and
(c) advise the Principal of the amount to be paid.

Within 28 days of the receipt of the claim the Principal shall pay the Contractor the amount so determined.

Adjustment to payment for rise and fall will not be made unless specified otherwise in the Specification. 

12.	GOODS AND SERVICES TAX

Payment from the Principal to the Contractor will include the GST payable. Any invoice for payment under this Agreement shall be a Tax Invoice in accordance with "A New Tax System (Goods and Services Tax) Act 1999".  The Principal is not obliged to make any payment under this Agreement unless the Contractor has provided a Tax Invoice in respect of that payment.

13.	CO-OPERATING WITH OTHERS

The Contractor shall:
(a)  cooperate in a courteous manner with DTEI employees, members of the public, business proprietors and all other contractors during the course of work.
(b)  Maintain good behavior acceptable to the Superintendent during working hours and, if applicable, outside working hours when in DTEI camp / arranged accommodation.

Failure to comply with these requirements may result in the Contractor being removed from the Panel.

14.	MEETINGS

The Contractor will attend any meetings as reasonably required by the Superintendent.  During these meetings the Contractor's performance, OHS&W, Environmental and any other relevant issues may be discussed.


15.	CONTRACTOR PERFORMANCE

At any time the Superintendent may undertake an evaluation of the Contractor's performance using the Contract Performance Evaluation Procedure.  A copy of the procedure will be made available to the Contractor if requested.  The evaluation, which will include reasons for any below acceptable scores, will be forwarded to the Contractor when completed.  

If the Contractor disagrees with the evaluation, they may forward a request to the Superintendent for a review, along with reasons why it should be reviewed.  Following reasonable consideration of the request, the Superintendent's decision will be final.

The evaluation may be taken into account in the assessment of future tenders.

16.	TERMINATION

This Agreement may be terminated by the Principal if, in its opinion, any of the following events occur:
(a) a substantial, repeated or persistent breach by the Contractor of any provision of the Agreement whether or not written notice of the breach has been given to the Contractor;
(b) the Contractor has failed to effect specific remedial action within the time specified by the Principal in a written notice that monitoring of the Contractor's performance has detected a deficiency in execution of the Works;
(c) the Contractor suffers or is in jeopardy of becoming subject to any form of Insolvency Administration; or
(d) the Contractor fails to comply with any of its obligations in relation to occupational health, safety and welfare.

If the Principal terminates this Agreement, it will pay the Contractor for that part of the Services authorised by the Principal and performed by the Contractor up to the termination date.

17.	DISPUTES

Any dispute arising out of this Agreement, shall be referred to the Superintendent, who with the Contractor and the Principal shall attempt to resolve the dispute or agree upon other means to resolve the dispute.

If within 14 days of the dispute being referred to the Superintendent, the dispute is not resolved by agreement or a means to resolve the dispute agreed upon, either party may refer the dispute to the Chairperson or President for the time being of the Institute of Arbitrators and Mediators Australia (SA Chapter) to appoint an arbitrator and determine the rules to conduct an arbitration to resolve the matter.

18.	OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY

The Principal is committed to the provision of a healthy and safe working environment.  The Principal requires the Contractor to accept the same commitment to occupational health and safety and the Contractor shall comply, and ensure that its employees, agents and subcontractors comply, with the Occupational Health, Safety and Welfare Act, 1986 and any reasonable instruction issued by the Principal in relation to Occupational Health, Safety and Welfare (OHS&W).

If requested by the Principal, the Contractor shall:
(a) provide evidence satisfactory to the Principal of its capacity to comply with the Occupational Health, Safety and Welfare Act, 1986;
(b) provide evidence that its employees, agents and subcontractors have received appropriate training in and are aware of their legal obligation and responsibilities in relation to occupational health safety and welfare; and
(c) provide the Contractor's Workcover Registration Number.


The Contractor shall permit the Principal to carry out any inspections the Principal deems necessary to ensure that the Contractor is complying with the Occupational Health and Safety practices referred to in this Contract. If all or part of the work under this Agreement is to be provided on a site controlled by the Principal or under the direction of the Principal, the Contractor shall comply with the Principal's OHS&W policies, procedures and instructions.  If the Contractor becomes aware of any potentially hazardous situation on the premises of the Principal, the Contractor shall immediately bring it to the Principal's attention for a direction regarding the matter.

If the Principal has additional requirements regarding the preparation and implementation of OHS&W systems and plans, these will be detailed in the attached OHS&W Requirements.




_____________


ANNEXURE TO THE AGREEMENT


The Principal is: (Clause 2)Commissioner of Highways
Roma Mitchell House
136 North Terrace
ADELAIDE  5000
The Superintendent is: (Clause 3)
The Manager, Infrastructure Delivery
DTEI
33 - 37 Warwick Street,
WALKERVILLE    5081.
Public Liability Insurance: (Clause 6 )$10 000 000.
Expiry Date:  (Clause 10)......years from the date of this Agreement

May include an option to extend for a further .....



_______________






DTEI XXCxxx

Edition:  November 2009	Panel Agreement: Provision of Plant Hire



DTEI XXCxxx	Page 2

Revision 0	Panel Agreement
	Annexure






