										
							NHMRC
					National Health & Medical Research Council
							












                                                                   
                                                                The  Australian



				         Motor Neuron Disease
					      DNA Bank                                                                   













 THE MATERIAL TRANSFER AGREEMENT




















BLO Ref: # insert

Inter-Institutional Material Transfer Agreement
PartiesUniversityThe University of Sydney, a body corporate under the University of Sydney Act 1989, ABN 15 211 513 464, of c/o The Australian Motor Neuron Disease DNA BankUniversity Project OfficerAttention: Lorel Adams
Manager, Australian Motor Neuron Disease DNA BankTelephone:  +61 2 9036 5456Email: ladams@med.usyd.edu.auFax: +61 2 9351 3636Recipient[insert party name], ABN [insert ABN], of [insert address]Recipient Project OfficerAttention:  [insert name]Telephone:  [insert]Email:  [insert]Fax:  [insert]DetailsDateThe date of this agreement is [insert effective date].Does the Material include biological materials? YES/NO (delete inapplicable choice)Material
(clause 1.1) [Insert description of material to be provided by the University.  Attach and reference schedule if necessary] and, if the Material includes biological materials, includes any Progeny and any Unmodified Derivatives as applicable but does not include Modifications.Supply Details
(clause 1.1)[Insert details of when and where the Material and Data will be delivered to the Recipient by the University]Location
(clause 1.2)[Insert location where Material will be used by the Recipient]Research Purpose
(clause 1.2) [Insert description of Recipient's intended use of the Material, which must be for non commercial purposes only]Recipient Personnel
(clause 1.2)[List personnel of Recipient who will be responsible for dealing with the Material]Data
(clause 2)[Insert description of related data to be provided with the Material.  Attach and reference schedule if necessary]Third Party Rights
(clause 4.5)Third party obligations are currently in place in relation to the Material and/or Data:  YES/NO (delete inapplicable choice).Expiry Date
(clause 7.1)[Insert date on which agreement to terminate if applicable.  Otherwise, insert "Not Applicable"]Special TermsThis agreement is subject to the following special terms:
[Insert any terms specific to the material and data to be provided.  If no special terms, insert "Not Applicable.]Note: All capitalised terms in column 1 of the Details have the meaning given in column 2.  
EXECUTED as an agreement on the terms of the Details, Special Terms and General Terms.SIGNED for and on behalf of THE UNIVERSITY OF SYDNEY by its duly authorised representative:
............................................................
Signature
............................................................
Printed Name
............................................................
DIRECTOR (or delegate)
The Australian Motor Neuron Disease DNA Bank
............................................................
Date

In the presence of:
............................................................
Signature
............................................................
Printed NameSIGNED for and on behalf of THE RECIPIENT by its duly authorised representative:

............................................................
Signature
............................................................
Printed Name
............................................................
Position
............................................................
Date

In the presence of:
............................................................
Signature
............................................................
Printed NameNote: By executing this agreement each signatory represents that he or she is authorised to sign on behalf of their entity.  The date of this agreement will be the date specified in the Details or if no date is specified in the Details the date on which the agreement has been executed by ALL parties
1 
General Terms
1 Material
1.1 Supply
The University agrees to supply the Material and the Data to the Recipient for the Research Purpose in accordance with the Supply Details.
1.2 Use
The Recipient agrees to limit the use of the Material and Data so that it is used:
(a) only at the Location;
(b) only for the Research Purpose; 
(c) only under the direction of the Recipient Personnel; and
(d) not for any commercial or profit-making purpose.
1.3 Biological materials
If the Material includes biological materials, the Recipient agrees not to use the Material in human subjects or in clinical trials involving human subjects without the written permission of the University.  
1.4 Compliance with regulations and policy
The Recipient agrees to use, and ensure the use of, the Material and Data in accordance with all applicable statues, regulations and codes of conduct, including those relating to research involving humans, animals or DNA, and only after first obtaining necessary approvals from its relevant ethics committee(s).
1.5 Limited transfer
The Recipient must not transfer the Material or Data to any other party other than a party working under the direct supervision of the Recipient Personnel at the Location unless it obtains the prior written consent of the University.  The Recipient will promptly submit any requests to transfer the Material or the Data to the University for approval, such approval to be withheld in the University's absolute discretion.
1.6 Security and safety measures
The Recipient will establish and implement appropriate policies and procedures to:
(a) safeguard the Material and the Data against disclosure to other parties with the same degree of care as it exercises with its own materials of a similar nature; 
(b) maintain the Material and Data under appropriate and safe conditions and in accordance with any directions by the University; and
(c) keep the Material and Data in such a way that it is clearly identifiable as the property of the University.
2 Data
2.1 Limited use and disclosure
The Recipient must take all action necessary to maintain the secrecy of the Data and, without limiting the foregoing, will not:
(a) use the Data other than for the performance of the Research Purpose;
(b) disclose the Data to any other person other than its employees who reasonably require access to the Data in the performance of the Research Purpose; or
(c) manufacture any product or use any process based on such Data or otherwise commercialise anything based on that Data except with University approval under clause 4.4 (Registrable IPRs).
2.2 Scope of obligations
In this agreement, the term Data means the information specified as such in the Details as provided by the University to the Recipient but excludes information which:
(a) is in or becomes part of the public domain other than through a breach of this agreement;
(b) the Recipient can prove by contemporaneous written documentation was already known to it at the time of disclosure by the University; or
(c) the Recipient acquires from a third party lawfully entitled to disclose it.
3 Monetary obligations
3.1 Delivery costs
All costs relating to the delivery of the Materials and Data to the Recipient under this agreement will be borne by the Recipient, unless otherwise specified by the University.
3.2 GST gross-up
If a supply under this agreement is subject to GST and GST has not been accounted for in determining the consideration payable for the supply, the supplying party may recover from the receiving party an amount on account of GST.  That amount is:
(a) equal to the value of the supply calculated in accordance with GST law multiplied by the prevailing GST rate; and
(b) payable at the same time as the recipient is required to pay for the related supply.
3.3 Tax invoice
The party making the supply must provide a tax invoice to the party receiving the supply if it is a taxable supply for GST purposes.
3.4 In-kind contributions
If GST is payable on an in-kind contribution by the Recipient:
(a) the University will issue a recipient created tax invoice ("RCTI") to the Recipient for the GST inclusive value of the in-kind contribution within 28 days of the supply being made; 
(b) the University warrants that it complies with the necessary legal requirements for issue of RCTIs; and
(c) the Recipient agrees not to issue an invoice for their in-kind contributions.
4 Ownership rights
4.1 Tangible property
The Recipient acknowledges that the University will continue to own the Material and Data, and own Progeny and Unmodified Derivatives, and that the Recipient will hold that property on the University's behalf as bailee.  Ownership of Modifications will be dealt with subject to clause 4.4 (Registrable IPRs).
4.2 Intellectual Property Rights
The Recipient acknowledges that:
(a) the ownership of IPRs in the Material and Data remains with the University;
(b) the University owns IPRs relating to Progeny and Unmodified Derivatives; and
(c) the ownership of IPRs relating to Modifications will be dealt with subject to clause 4.3 (Ownership of New IPRs); and
(d) no licence of the IPRs in the Material and Data to the Recipient beyond the rights provided by this agreement is implied by the Recipient's use of the Material or Data.
4.3 Ownership of New IPRs
(a)	The ownership of new IPRs arising from the Recipient's use of or access to the Materials and/or Data, including any IPRs in any inventions created by the Recipient or in any Modifications (New IPRs), will be owned jointly by the Recipient and the University as tenants in common.  
(b)	Each party will be entitled to use those New IPRs for its own non-commercial research purposes but any commercialisation of new IPRs will first require the parties to negotiate and agree a commercialisation agreement.
(c)	The Recipient will provide details of any New IPRs to the University within a reasonable time period from the date of creation of the New IPRs and will comply with any other reasonable reporting requirements in relation to New IPRs which are notified by the University.
4.4 Registrable IPRs
If the use of or access to the Material or Data by the Recipient results in any IPRs which are capable of being registered, and which may be commercially useful, but which are not owned exclusively by the University under clause 4.2 (Intellectual Property Rights), including any New IPRs under clause 4.3 (Ownership of New IPRs), then the parties will negotiate to determine: (a) inventorship and the relative contributions between the parties; (b) what, if any, IPRs registration applications will be made, the party responsible for registration and maintenance and the apportionment of any associated costs; and (c) the process of commercialisation.  
4.5 Pre-existing rights
The provision of the Material and Data to Recipient will not alter or detract from any Third Party Rights in the Material and Data.
5 Publication
5.1 Publication rights
Subject to clause 5.2 (Acknowledgments), this agreement will not be interpreted as preventing or delaying publication of research findings resulting from use of the Material, Modifications or Data by the Recipient.
5.2 Acknowledgments
The Recipient agrees to appropriately acknowledge the source of the Material or Data in all publications which contain, refer to or use the Material or Data and, if requested, agrees to send the University a copy of any such publications at the time of submission or publication.  
6 Warranties and liability
6.1 No warranties
The Recipient acknowledges that the Material is experimental in nature and may have hazardous properties.  To the extent permitted by law and subject to clause 6.3 (Statutory terms), the University makes no representation or warranty that the Material or Data is fit for the particular purpose for which it is required by the Recipient.  The University expressly excludes and disclaims any warranties that (1) the use of the Material or Data for the Research Purpose will not infringe any third party IPRs or other rights or that (2) the Recipient is able to perform the Research Purpose or to use or commercialise the research results.
6.2 Implied warranties
To the extent permitted by law and subject to clause 6.3 (Statutory terms), the University excludes all implied terms, representations and warranties whether statutory or otherwise, relating to the subject matter of this agreement.
6.3 Statutory terms
Where any statute implies in this agreement any term, and that statute voids or prohibits provisions under a contract which exclude or modify the operation of such term, such term is deemed to be included in this agreement.  However, the University's liability for breach of such term will be, if permitted by law, limited (at the University's option) to replacement of the goods or supply of equivalent goods, or the payment of the costs of replacing the goods or of acquiring equivalent goods.
6.4 Liability limit
Subject to clause 6.3 (Statutory terms), the University's total liability to the Recipient for loss or damage of any kind, however caused, due to the University's negligence, breach of contract, breach of any law, in equity, under indemnities or otherwise, arising from or in any way related to this agreement, the Material or the Data is limited to $2,000. 
6.5 Liability for use
The Recipient assumes all liability for damage or loss which may arise from the Recipient's use, storage or disposal of the Material and Data.  The Recipient indemnifies the University for any liability, loss, costs, damages and expenses (including legal costs and expenses) incurred or suffered by the University from any claim or demand by any other person due to or arising from the use, storage or disposal of the Material or Data by the Recipient, except to the extent caused by the gross negligence or wilful misconduct of the University.  
7 Termination
7.1 Termination events
This agreement will terminate on the earliest of:
(a) completion of the research associated with the Research Purpose; or
(b) written notice by the University following a breach by the Recipient of a terms of this agreement which the Recipient failed to remedy within 14 days after receiving notice requiring them to do so; or
(c) 30 days written notice by either party without reason (subject to clause 7.3 (Request to defer termination)); or
(d) the Expiry Date.
7.2 Consequences
On termination of this agreement under clause 7.1 (Termination events), the Recipient agrees to:
(a) discontinue its use of the Material and Data and either return to the University or, at the option of the University, destroy the Data and any remaining Material and certify that destruction to the University; and
(b) either destroy any Modifications or remain bound by the terms of clause 4 (Ownership rights) as they apply to Modifications.
7.3 Request to defer termination
In the event the University terminates this Agreement under clause 7.1(b) (Termination events), the Recipient may request the effective date of termination be deferred for a period of up to one year to permit completion of research in progress.  The University may only withhold approval to defer termination on reasonable grounds, including imminent health risk, obligations to third parties or IPRs infringement.
7.4 No prejudice
Termination of this agreement is without prejudice to the rights of the terminating party to obtain damages for any breach of this agreement. 
7.5 Survival
Clauses 2 (Data), 4 (Ownership rights), 6 (Warranties and liability), 7.2 (Consequences) and 8 (Disputes) survive the termination of this agreement for any reason.
8 Disputes
Any dispute relating to this agreement ("Dispute") must, prior to a party initiating litigation (other than for equitable or interlocutory relief), be dealt with as follows:
(a) the affected party will notify the other with details of the Dispute ("Dispute Notice") and, within 7 days of receiving the Dispute Notice, the Project Officers will confer and attempt to resolve the Dispute;
(b) if unresolved within 14 days of the Dispute Notice, the Dispute will be escalated to two executives from each party who will confer and attempt to resolve the Dispute;
(c) if still unresolved within a further 14 days of being escalated, either party may refer the Dispute to mediation;
(d) if the parties cannot agree on a mediator within a further 14 days, the Dispute will be referred by the parties to the President, Australian Commercial Disputes Centre, Sydney to nominate a suitably qualified mediator and the parties will accept that nomination;
(e) the parties will cooperate to enable the mediator to mediate the Dispute within 30 days of the mediator's appointment; and
(f) the fees of the mediator will be paid by the parties in equal proportions. 
9 General
9.1 Terms and entire agreement
This agreement consists of these General Terms, the Details, the Special Terms and any annexures or schedules expressly incorporated and it constitutes the entire agreement of the parties about its subject matter and supersedes all previous agreements, understandings and negotiations on that subject matter.
9.2 Inconsistency
If there is an inconsistency between a provision of the Details, the Special Terms, any annexures or schedules expressly incorporated and these General Terms then the first-mentioned terms prevail.
9.3 No representations or warranties
The Recipient acknowledges that in entering into this agreement it has not relied on any representations or warranties about its subject matter except as expressly provided by this agreement.
9.4 Variation and waiver
A provision of this agreement or a right created under it may not be waived or varied except in writing, signed by the party or parties to be bound.  A failure or delay in exercise of a right arising from a breach of this agreement does not constitute a waiver of that right.
9.5 Governing law
This agreement is governed by the law in force in New South Wales.  Each party submits to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of the courts of that place. 
9.6 No exclusivity
The Recipient is not acquiring the Material or the Data on an exclusive basis and this agreement will not preclude the University from providing the Material or the Data to another party.
9.7 Consideration
This agreement is entered into in consideration of the parties incurring obligations and giving rights under this agreement and for other valuable consideration.
9.8 General interpretation
Unless the contrary intention appears, in this agreement:
(a) references to the singular includes the plural and vice versa;
(b) references to person or individuals include a firm, a body corporate, a partnership, a joint venture, an unincorporated body or association, or any government agency;
(c) the words "include", "including" are not used as, nor are they to be interpreted as, words of limitation; and
(d) headings are for convenience only and do not affect interpretation.
10 Definitions
The following words have these meanings in this agreement:
IPRs means all registered and unregistered rights in relation to present and future copyright, trade marks, designs, know-how, patents, confidential information and all other intellectual property as defined in article 2 of the Convention establishing the World Intellectual Property Organisation 1967.

Modifications means any substances created by the Recipient through use of the Material which contain or incorporate the Material.

Progeny means an unmodified descendant from the Material, such as virus from virus, cell from cell, organism from organism.

Unmodified Derivatives means substances created by Recipient which constitute an unmodified functional sub-unit or an expression product of the Material, for example: sub-clones of unmodified cell lines; purified or fractionated sub-sets of the Material; proteins expressed from DNA and/or RNA; DNA or RNA supplied by Provider; polyclonal and/or monoclonal antibodies secreted by a hybridoma cell lines; or sub-sets of the Material such as novel plasmids or vectors.


Schedules: (delete if not applicable)

4


(c) 2006 University of Sydney (BLO)  10/04/2011						                       Page 2 of 8    
2007MTA_DNA.doc



(c) 2006 University of Sydney (BLO)								                       Page 1 of 8    





