TAX INVOICE
BOOKING FORM
NSW Wine Week ~ 14-20 March 2010

By signing this form I, for and on behalf of the Exhibitor, accept the NSWWIA's offer (subject to the NSWWIA's confirmation of acceptance) to participate in the Event on the following terms and conditions:

Participation Offer
1. I, the Exhibitor, have read and understood the NSW Wine Week Participation Offer for the Event (Participation Offer) and I agree to the terms of the Event contained therein and the terms set out in this Booking Form and the Exhibitor Guidelines (together the Agreement). 
Cancellation
2. If the Event Manager, John Fairfax Publications Pty Limited, determines that conditions outside of its reasonable control, including but not limited to inclement weather, are likely to prevent the Event from being carried out successfully and safely , the Event or any part of the program making up the Event may be cancelled.  If this occurs, no fees will be refunded, nor will NSWWIA be liable for any losses incurred by the Exhibitor or any employee, contractor or agent of the Exhibitor.
Payment Obligation
3. 20% of the Package Price must be paid by the Exhibitor on application to participate in the Event (Deposit).   If no Deposit is received the application will not be accepted by the NSWWIA.
4. Upon acceptance by the NSWWIA of the Exhibitor as an Event participant,  a tax invoice will be issued for the balance of the Event fees which will be due and must be paid by January 22, 2010 (Due Date).
5. In the event of non or incomplete payment to NSWWIA of the Event fees payable by the Due Date:
a. the Exhibitor will have no right to the benefits outlined in the Agreement or to exhibit at the Event;
b. the Deposit paid will be forfeited and will not be refundable by NSWWIA;  and 
c. NSWWIA  will be entitled to reallocate space to another applicant.
GST
6. Unless otherwise stated, amounts payable under this Agreement are exclusive of GST.
7. Where a party makes a taxable supply (Supplier) to another party (Recipient), the Recipient must pay to the Supplier an additional amount equal to the GST payable by the Supplier (unless the consideration for that taxable supply is expressed to include GST).  The additional amount must be paid when any consideration for that taxable supply is first paid or provided.
8. The Supplier must provide to the Recipient a tax invoice at the time of payment under clause 7.
9. Where a party indemnifies, reimburses or makes a contribution (Contribution) to the other party, and the other party can obtain an input tax credit on an acquisition associated with the Contribution, the amount of the Contribution for the party is reduced by the amount of that input tax credit.  The reduction is to be made before any increase under clause 7.
10. Terms used in this clause have the same meaning as in the GST Act.
Event Management
11. NSWWIA will be responsible for the allocation to Exhibitors of all stall positions, winery exposure opportunities and any other relevant matters throughout the Event in the NSWWIA absolute discretion.  NSWWIA is not obliged to make any changes to its allocations to the Exhibitor, except in its absolute discretion.
12. The Exhibitor will comply with and conduct itself, and where relevant, its stall, at the Event in accordance with the Exhibitor Guidelines issued by the NSWWIA and as amended from time to time. 
Risk & Insurance
13. The Exhibitor's participation in the Event may expose it, its employees, contractors, agents and representatives to the risk of suffering loss or harm.  The Exhibitor acknowledges and agrees that it will not hold NSWWIA responsible for any loss or damage suffered by it, its employees, contractors, agents and representatives for any reason whatsoever as a consequence of its participation in the Event.
14. The Exhibitor acknowledges that in order to participate the Exhibitor must provide a copy of a certificate of currency for public liability insurance for $10 million which must include cover for the Exhibitor at the Event and the NSW Wine Industry Association as an interested party.
Liability & Indemnity
15. To the extent legally permitted, NSWWIA excludes all liability and will not be liable to the Exhibitor, its employees, contractors or agents for any claim, expense, loss or damage suffered or incurred by the Exhibitor arising directly or indirectly out of NSWWIA's conduct, whether such expense, loss or damage is direct, consequential, special indirect or other loss or damage whether such arises out of breach of contract, tort (including negligence), statute or otherwise.
16. All statutory warranties implied by law on the part of NSWWIA are hereby excluded, to the fullest extent permitted by law.  Where the Trade Practices Act implies a condition or warranty that cannot be excluded and NSWWIA is liable to compensate the Exhibitor or any third party as a result of a breach of such condition or warranty or as a result of any other breach of this Agreement or any negligence, then NSWWIA's maximum liability, however arising, is limited as follows:
a. in the case of goods:
i. the replacement of the goods or the re-supply of equivalent goods;
ii. the repair of the goods;
iii. the payment of the cost of having the goods repaired or replaced; and
b. in the case of services:
i. the supplying of services again; or
ii. the payment of the cost of having the services supplied again.
17. The Exhibitor indemnifies NSWWIA, its employees, contractors and agents (the indemnified) against all actions, proceedings, claims and demands which may be brought or made against the indemnified by any person in respect of any loss, damage or injury (including death) occurring to any person or property arising out of or in connection with:
a. the Exhibitor's participation in the Event; 
b. the Exhibitor's use or occupation of the space and position allocated by NSWWIA; or 
c. any items owned, operated, exhibited, displayed, demonstrated by or under the direct or indirect control of the Exhibitor.
This indemnity includes any costs incurred by NSWWIA (including legal costs on a solicitor-own client basis) in defending any actions, proceedings, claims and demands or in being represented at proceedings.
Transfer and Sub-letting 
18. The Exhibitor must not transfer or sub-let its participation in the Event to a third party without NSWWIA's prior written agreement.
Exhibitor Representatives / Employees
19. I undertake to ensure that at least one representative of the Exhibitor is present at the Exhibitor's stand at all times during the opening hours of the Sydney Cellar Door and that the Exhibitor's employees, contractors and agents working on the stand will: 
a. hold Responsible Service of Alcohol certificates;
b. display all required harm minimisation signage required by the relevant authority; and 
c. understand the terms and conditions of the Event as detailed in the Agreement.  

Termination
20. NSWWIA is entitled to evict the Exhibitor from the Sydney Cellar Door or terminate the Exhibitor's participation in the Event if the Exhibitor breaches the terms of this Agreement where  the Exhibitor has been notified of such breach and the breach has not been remedied within a reasonable time.
General
21. Where there is more than one Exhibitor occupying a stall at Sydney Cellar Door as a part of the Event, their liability will be joint and several.
22. The Agreement contains the entire terms and conditions of our agreement and supersede all prior agreements, arrangements and representations between the parties relating to NSW Wine Week 2010.
23. No addition, modification or waiver of any provision of the Agreement will be binding on the parties unless made in writing and signed by a duly authorised representative of each party.
24. The Exhibitor, its employees, contractors and agents will comply with all laws, regulations and requirements of any statutory authority or government agency and all reasonable directions of the NSWWIA.
25. This Agreement is governed by and must be construed in accordance with the laws in the state of New South Wales. 




                                                                                                              /        / 
Signature for and on behalf of the Exhibitor (Print Name)		   Date

Note:  By signing this form the named Exhibitor agrees to the terms of the Agreement and commits to paying the full amount of the fee for the Participation Package chosen even if the Exhibitor cannot or does not wish to participate in the Event.

Fax form to 02 6964 3526, email to info@nswwine.com.au or post to NSW Wine Industry Association, PO Box 1638, Griffith  NSW  2680.

