










Xyz Affiliation Agreement


U@MQ Limited
and
Person A
and
Person B
and
Person C
		Authorised Representatives of Xyz























Table of Contents

1.	Definitions and Construction	1
2.	Operation and Term of the Agreement	1
3.	Renewal	1
4.	Acknowledgement and Warranties	1
5.	Obligations of Person A, Person B and Person C	1
6.	Obligations of U@MQ	1
7.	Funding and Bank Account 	1
8.	Termination	1
9.	Notices	1
10.	General	1
Annexure A - U@MQ Strategic Plan	1
Annexure B - Macquarie University Ethics Statement	12
Annexure C - U@MQ Terms & Conditions for Room Bookings	13


SCHEDULE OF DETAILS
Parties
(1)	U@MQ Limited ("U@MQ)
	
	ACN 		125 926 169

	Address	Level 0, U@MQ Building, Macquarie University			North Ryde, NSW 2019

	Fax	(02) 9850 7711

	Attention	Deidre Anderson (CEO)

	Email	deidre.anderson@mq.edu.au


(2)	Person A	Authorised Representative

	Contact No			
	
	Email	
	
	Student ID					


(3)	Person B	Authorised Representative

	Contact No			
	
	Email				

	Student ID


(4)	Person C	Authorised Representative

	Contact No			
	
	Email				

	Student ID

Background
A. U@MQ is a company established to provide services for the members of the Macquarie University Community, including staff and Students.
B. U@MQ's vision is to "provide more than an academic experience", and its mission is to "create a vibrant, fun and healthy University campus environment", "develop partnerships that will add value to Macquarie University" and "focus all services and facility requirements on the customer's needs".
C. In line with its vision and mission, it is U@MQ's desire to provide support to Xyz, and the Registered Participants of such Group.
D. Xyz is a Group formed at Macquarie University.
E. Person A, Person B and Person C are the current Authorised Representatives of Xyz, as at the date of this agreement. 
F. U@MQ has offered to Person A, Person B and Person C the opportunity to receive the rights and benefits outlined in this agreement, including that Xyz becomes a Student Group affiliated with U@MQ.
G. Person A, Person B and Person C have accepted that offer and agree to be bound by the terms and conditions of this agreement.
H. U@MQ also agrees to be bound by the obligations imposed by this agreement.

Agreement
1. Definitions and Construction
1.1 In this document, unless the context otherwise requires or permits:
Agreement means this agreement.
Authorised Representative means any Registered Participant of Xyz, who is a Student, and who has the consent of a majority of the other Registered Participants of Xyz to enter into this Agreement on its behalf
Breach Notice means a notice provided under clause 8.4 of this agreement, and complying with clause 10, specifying conduct of the recipient in breach of a provision of this agreement, (including the date and location on which the conduct occurred), and the clause of this agreement in breach.
Business Day means a day which is not a Saturday, Sunday or bank or public holiday in Sydney.
Event is an organised function held by Xyz in a manner consistent with the objectives of Xyz and U@MQ.
Macquarie University means the body corporate established by the Macquarie University Act 1989 (NSW) under the name of "Macquarie University".
Macquarie University Community means the students of Macquarie University from time to time, and staff and alumni.
Registered Participant is a person registered as engaging in Xyz's activities on a regular basis, and agreeing to abide by any governing rules or constitution of Xyz in place from time to time.
Student is a Person currently enrolled as a student of Macquarie University.
Student Groups Administrator is the person employed by U@MQ holding the position of Student Groups Administrator.
Xyz refers to clubs, societies, collectives or any other form of Xyz formed at or relating to Macquarie University, and which has affiliated with U@MQ by its Authorised Representatives executing an agreement in the form of, or similar to, this agreement.
U@MQ means U@MQ Limited.
U@MQ Premises are spaces owned or leased and operated by U@MQ.
U@MQ Strategic Plan means the excerpt of the plan appearing as Annexure A to this agreement.
U@MQ Terms & Conditions means the terms and conditions for access to rooms and storage provided on both U@MQ and Macquarie University appearing as Annexure C to this agreement. 
University Ethics Statement means the statement appearing as Annexure B to this agreement.
University Premises are spaces owned or controlled by Macquarie University.
Visual Identity Guide means the visual identity guide of Macquarie University (available at www.mq.edu.au/VIG)
1.2 In this document, except where the context otherwise requires:
(a) (document) a reference to a document or instrument includes any amendments made to it from time to time and, unless the contrary intention appears, includes a replacement;
(b) (gender) words importing any gender include all other genders;
(c) (person) the word person includes a firm, a body corporate, a partnership, a joint venture, an unincorporated body or association or an authority;
(d) (successors) a reference to an organisation includes a reference to its successors;
(e) (singular includes plural) the singular includes the plural and vice versa;
(f) (instruments) a reference to a law includes regulations and instruments made under it;
(g) (include) the words include, includes, including and for example are not to be interpreted as words of limitation; and
(h) (writing) writing and written includes printing, typing and other modes of reproducing words in a visible form including, without limitation, any representation of words in a physical document or in an electronic communication or form or otherwise.
1.3 Headings
Headings do not affect the interpretation of this document.
2. Operation and Term of the Agreement
2.1 Upon execution of this agreement, in consideration of each party receiving the benefits of this agreement: 
(i) Person A, Person B and Person C agree that they shall become bound by and required to perform the obligations imposed on them by this agreement;
(j) U@MQ agrees it shall become bound by, and required to perform, the obligations imposed on it under this agreement;
(k) Xyz identified on Schedule of Details shall become a Student Group affiliated with U@MQ.
2.2 Subject to clause 2.2, this agreement is entered into between each of Person A, Person B and Person C with U@MQ separately.   All obligations imposed on each of Person A, Person B and Person C are imposed on them individually and shall in no circumstance create any liability on any party (that is either Person A, Person B or Person C) for the acts of another party.
2.3 Clause 2.2 shall in no way affect rights and obligations under this agreement being granted to, warranties (such as in clause 4) given by, or obligations required to be exercised by, each of Person A, Person B and Person C in the plural.
2.4 The agreement commences on the date of execution and unless terminated earlier in accordance with clause 8 (whether as between all parties or between U@MQ and one or more parties), continues until 31 December of the same year, upon which date (unless terminated earlier), it shall terminate automatically.
3. Renewal
3.1 The parties may renew the term of this agreement for a further period by agreement in writing.  This renewal may be made as between U@MQ and Person A, Person B and Person C.
4. Acknowledgement and Warranties
4.1 Person A, Person B and Person C each warrant that they have obtained the consent of a majority of Registered Participants of Xyz to enter into this agreement.
4.2 Person A, Person B and Person C warrant that the consent referred to in clause 4.1 has been obtained in a form compliant with any applicable governing rules and/or constitution of Xyz.
5. Obligations of Person A, Person B and Person C
5.1 In consideration of U@MQ providing the benefits and performing the obligations set out in clause 6, Person A, Person B and Person C undertake at all times to:
(a) Ensure that Xyz has a distinct purpose not held by any other existing Student Group;
(b) Ensure Xyz is open to participation by all Macquarie University Students who demonstrate a genuine interest in the purpose of Xyz;
(c) Ensure that Xyz has a minimum of 15 Registered Participants at all times;
(d) Ensure that Authorised Representatives of Xyz are currently enrolled Macquarie University Students;
(e) Ensure that Xyz has a minimum of 75% currently-enrolled Macquarie University Students as Registered Participants;
(f) In relation to Xyz funds, comply with clause 7 and any other obligations imposed by U@MQ from time to time;
(g) Comply with the Macquarie University Visual Identity Guide in all published material where the University name and logo are used;
(h) Attend and participate as reasonably required by U@MQ in meetings with U@MQ;
(i) Participate as reasonably required by U@MQ in official events on campus including O-week and MacFest;
(j) Provide an annual report or interim report to U@MQ as reasonably required by U@MQ, in relation to annual activities, funds raised, any other information needed by U@MQ in relation to Xyz;
(k) Act at all times in alignment with the ethics framework of Macquarie University and the values contained in the U@MQ Strategic Plan; and
(l) Run Xyz and all its activities in accordance with principles of environmental, social and economic sustainability.
6. Obligations of U@MQ
6.1 In consideration of Person A, Person B and Person C performing their obligations and duties under this agreement, U@MQ undertakes that at all times it will:
(a) Make available a Student Groups Administrator who is available during normal business hours to support each of Person A, Person B and Person C, and Xyz;
(b) Provide and administer access to promote Xyz via the U@MQ website, including a dedicated page for Xyz to enter its information, and the opportunity to promote via the U@MQ eNewsletter.
(c) Provide Xyz other services including use of computers, AV equipment, internet and printers (based on fair usage) during ordinary office hours excluding the Sport and Aquatic Centre and Sports Fields.  Refer to the Student Group Handbook for limits and conditions of use.
(d) Provide Xyz the opportunity to take part in O-week and any other official event where Student Groups may promote themselves;
(e) Provide Xyz free of charge access to rooms and storage facilities for Xyz to conduct their normal activities subject to U@MQ Terms & Conditions [Annex C];
(f) Provide free of charge expertise to support the running of Xyz if required, for example in marketing, fund-raising, management etc;
(g) Authorise (by delegation from Macquarie University) Xyz to use the Macquarie University name and logo in accordance with the visual identity guide;
(h) Ensure that liability indemnity insurance is obtained to generally cover the activities of Xyz (including activities of Person A, Person B and Person C as committee members of Xyz) (subject to any exclusions or limits to coverage);
(i) Act at all times in alignment with the ethics framework of the University [Annex B] and the values contained in the U@MQ Strategic Plan [Annex A];
(j) Run the centralised administration of Xyz and all its activities in accordance with principles of environmental, social and economic sustainability.
7. Funding and Trust Account
7.1 Person A, Person B and Person C agree that any monies received from Registered Participants of Xyz, or by any other person (including U@MQ or Macquarie University) in relation to the operations of Xyz, shall be deposited into the "U@MQ Xyzs Account" to be established on execution of this agreement by U@MQ.
7.2 Person A, Person B and Person C agree that any monies previously held by Xyz formed and bound by previous rules are required to transfer any monies held over from said previous Xyz into the "U@MQ Xyzs Account" as referred to in clause 7.1 within ten Business Days on the execution of this agreement and that all other existing bank accounts will be henceforth closed.
7.3 Person A, Person B and Person C agree that Xyz shall be deemed inactive after any continuous six month period in which Xyz does not hold any meetings or other activity. Any property or monies held for Xyz shall remain held in trust for a further six months, after which time, should Xyz not have been reactivated, all property and monies will be transferred to the U@MQ general Student Engagement account.
7.4 U@MQ undertakes that:
(a) it will provide monthly statements of Xyz's account to each of Person A, Person B and Person C at the addresses or email addresses specified in this agreement;
(b) upon receiving any application for withdrawal of funds from the trust account by any of Person A, Person B or Person C, it will process that request and provide a response within two Business Days thereafter;
(c) access to funds will only be refused if the proposed event or activity breaches the University Ethics Statement, is likely to involve illegal activity or conduct, or is likely to involve conduct or activities not covered by the insurance policy held by U@MQ or Macquarie University in relation to activities of Xyz and other Student Groups.
8. Termination
8.1 Person A, Person B and Person C may together terminate this agreement at any time by:
(a) giving notice in writing to U@MQ; and
(b) providing with that notice a written document confirming that a majority of the Registered Participants of Xyz have voted in favour of a resolution agreeing to terminate this agreement, or similar.
8.2 Any of Person A, Person B or Person C may terminate this agreement (as between that party and U@MQ only) by giving notice in writing to U@MQ at any time. This agreement shall then continue thereafter to subsist as between U@MQ and the remaining parties only.
8.3 In the event of any of Person A, Person B or Person C ceasing (whether by resignation, termination or otherwise) to be an Authorised Representative of Xyz:
(a) That person shall be obliged to serve a notice of termination on U@MQ under clause 8.2 of this agreement; and
(b) U@MQ shall be entitled also to terminate immediately by notice in writing to that person.
8.4 In the event of a breach of this agreement by any or all of Person A, Person B or Person C:
(a) U@MQ shall be entitled to serve a Breach Notice on the person in breach of the relevant clause (or on all of the persons in breach);
(b) on receipt of the Breach Notice the recipient shall have a period of 30 Business Days thereafter to remedy that breach;
(c) if, after the expiry of that period U@MQ is not satisfied that the breach referred to has been adequately remedied, it shall be entitled to terminate this agreement as between the breaching party(ies) (or with all parties, if all are in breach) by service of a notice in writing on that party(ies).
9. Notices
9.1 All notices required or permitted to be given by one party to another under this deed:
(a) may be given by that party or their representative; and
(b) must be in writing, addressed to the other party; and:
(i) delivered to that party's address as noted in the Details to this agreement;
(ii) posted to a party's address as noted in the Details;
(iii) for parties with a facsimile number noted in the Details, transmitted by facsimile transmission to that party's facsimile; or
(iv) transmitted by email to that party's email address.
9.2 A notice given to a party under subclause 1 of this clause is treated as having been given and received:
(a) if delivered to a party's address on the day of delivery if a Business Day, otherwise on the next Business Day; and
(b) if posted to a party's address on the second Business Day after posting, if a Business Day, otherwise on the second Business Day after the next Business Day; and
(c) if transmitted by facsimile to a party's facsimile number and a correct and complete transmission report is received, on the day of transmission if a Business Day, otherwise on the next Business Day; and
(d) if transmitted by electronic mail to a party's Email address and no message is received stating that the transmission has failed, on the day of transmission if a Business Day, otherwise on the next Business Day.
9.3 In the case of any notices required to be given by all of Person A, Person B and Person C, or by U@MQ to each of Person A, Person B and Person C, each notice must be given separately (from or to each person) and in a manner compliant with the requirements of clauses 9.1 and 9.2.
10. General
10.1 This agreement is the entire agreement between the parties on its subject matter.
The only enforceable obligations and liabilities of the parties in relation to the subject matter are those that arise out of this agreement.
All representations, communications and prior agreements in relation to the subject matter are merged in and superseded by this agreement.
10.2 This agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts.  All counterparts make the one agreement.
10.3 If a provision of this agreement or a right or remedy of a party under this agreement is invalid or unenforceable in a particular jurisdiction:
(a) it is read down or severed in that jurisdiction only to the extent of the invalidity or unenforceability; and
(b) it does not affect the validity or enforceability of that provision in another jurisdiction or the remaining provisions in any jurisdiction.
This clause is not limited by any other provision of this agreement in relation to severability, prohibition or enforceability.
10.4 The non-exercise of or delay in exercising any power or right of a party does not operate as a waiver of that power or right.  No single exercise of a power or right precludes any other or further exercise of it or the exercise of any other power or right.  A power or right may only be waived in writing, signed by the party to be bound by the waiver.
10.5 This agreement may only be varied by agreement in writing between all parties to this agreement as at the time of the variation.




Annexure A - U@MQ Strategic Plan (excerpt)



VisionProvide more than an academic experience 
MissionCreate a vibrant, fun and healthy University campus environment Develop partnerships that will add value to Macquarie UniversityFocus all services and facility requirements on the customer's needs
Values* Integrity and honesty
* Sustainability
* Learning and innovation
* Health and balance
* Selflessness
* Openness and accountability

Annexure B - Macquarie University Ethics Statement
Macquarie stands in the tradition of universities as independent sources of knowledge, research and teaching - supporting an international network of Students, scholars and researchers seeking rational enlightenment for the good of society, in general, and the communities we serve, in particular.
Macquarie wishes to act with integrity - consciously informed by a framework of core values and principles that are given consistent, practical effect.  The university and its members are accountable for their conduct, to be evaluated in the light of this framework.
1.1.1 Fundamental Principles
The University is committed to:
* Fostering a collegial community based on mutual trust 
* Respecting the intrinsic dignity of all persons 
* Promoting equality of opportunity 
* Neither initiating nor colluding in harmful acts 
Whenever acting as part of this University:
* Act with integrity and according to a well informed conscience
* Be courageous - look beyond established boundaries, promote and defend what you believe to be right and true 
* Be curious - explore novel ideas for the creation and discovery of new knowledge 
* Be independent - engage with the world in a principled manner without fear or favour 
* Be responsible - own your decisions and the part you play in the decisions of others 
* Be honest and trustworthy - in all that you say and do 
* Be open - to the greatest extent possible, offer a timely, complete and considered account of the basis on which decisions are made 
* Be excellent - offer your best even when something less would be acceptable to others; always uphold the standards relevant to your discipline or practice 
* Be just - assess each matter fairly and on its merits; 
* Be nurturing - care for the health, welfare and safety of all and the environment 
* Be cooperative - work with and for others and the University 
* Be compassionate - create opportunities for others to flourish as you hope to yourself.
The values and principles outlined in this framework are intended to be applied in a balanced and inter-related manner and are not intended to be referenced in isolation.

Annexure C - U@MQ Terms & Conditions for Room Bookings

1. Availability - Due to the finite number of rooms available on campus, room bookings will be approved on a first come first serve basis based on fair usage.  Student groups will be provided with rooms according to the availability of these rooms.

2. All bookings will need to be made through the Student Groups Administrator at U@MQ either in writing or via email - Information to be included: description of event, date(s) of event, starting and finishing times, menus, (plus proposed budget for catering) number of people expected, room set-up and other additional requirements. This information is required no less than 5 working days prior to the event.

3. Cancellations - Cancellations of U@MQ conference facilities require a minimum of 3 business days notice. If a group does not cancel via the correct channels or does not attend a booked event, any charges associated with the set-up and preparation of the room may be charged to Xyz, rather than covered by U@MQ Student Engagement.  

4. Function Timing - The venue will not be held responsible should all guests not be punctual in arriving or being seated, or should speakers, attendees or the client delay the commencement of any event, or if any other interference beyond the control of the venue does not permit us to commence service at the contracted time.

5. Displays and Signage - No items are to be nailed, attached, pinned, screwed or glued to the walls of any area of the venue unless otherwise approved by Macquarie University or U@MQ.

6. Function Room Allocation - Macquarie University or U@MQ reserves the right to substitute similar function space at management's discretion.

7. Re-allocation of space - Macquarie University or U@MQ reserves the right to reallocate a function should the expected numbers decrease below the confirmed minimum.

8. Other Functions - U@MQ reserves the right to book other functions in the same function room up to one hour before the scheduled function commencement time and one hour after the scheduled function finishing time. Additionally the venue reserves the right to book a concurrent function in adjoining rooms at any time.

9. Commencement and Vacating of Rooms - Xyz agrees to begin the function and vacate the designated function space at the scheduled times agreed upon. 

10. Security - Macquarie University or U@MQ will not accept responsibility for the loss or damage to any equipment, personal belongings or merchandise left on the premises prior to, during, or after the function.

11. Insurance - Xyz is responsible for obtaining confirmation that their activities will be covered by the Liability Indemnity Insurance

12. Damages - Xyz is financially liable for any damage sustained to the venue whether through the actions of their guests, their outside contractors or any other persons attending the function.

13. Compliance - Xyz is responsible for the orderly behaviour of their guests and Macquarie University or U@MQ reserves the right to intervene where it seems fit.

14. Fire, Life and Safety - Macquarie University or U@MQ retains the right to adjust any set up to ensure fire, life and safety codes are not breached

15. Cleanliness - Xyz is responsible for ensuring the venue provided is left in a clean and tidy state and rubbish is placed in the receptacles provided.  Value to do so may incur a cleaning cost which will be charged to Xyz.

Executed as an agreement



Executed by U@MQ Limited (ACN 125 926 169) in accordance with Section 127 of the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth)



	
Signature of Authorised Person


	
Office Held


	
Name of Authorised Person 
(BLOCK LETTERS)


	
Date




Executed by Xyz



	
Signature of Person A



Person A
Authorised Representative


	
Date
















	
Signature of Authorised Person


	
Office Held


	
Name of Authorised Person 
(BLOCK LETTERS)


	
Date








	
Signature of Witness



	
Name of Witness


	
Date

	
Signature of Person B



Person B
Authorised Representative


	
Date





	
Signature of Person C



Person C
Authorised Representative


	
Date


























	
Signature of Witness



	
Name of Witness


	
Date





	
Signature of Witness



	
Name of Witness


	
Date

11


11


Xyz Affiliation Agreement updated 10/04/2011





Xyz Affiliation Agreement updated 10/04/2011		i

xi


15
Xyz Affiliation Agreement updated 10/04/2011	

