GLIDER SYNDICATE AGREEMENT

THIS AGREEMENT is made between the parties specified in Item 1 of Schedule 1 on the date specified in Item 2 of Schedule 1.

RECITALS:-

A.	The parties ("the Syndicate Members") have entered into a Glider Syndicate together for the purposes of storing, maintaining and flying a glider aircraft.

B.	The Syndicate Members have agreed that the Glider Syndicate is to be operated on the terms and conditions set out in this Agreement.

OPERATIVE PROVISIONS:-

1.	Definitions and Interpretation

1.1	Definitions
"Additional Equipment" means those items listed in Schedule 2 which do not form part of the Associated Equipment but are owned by one or some of the Syndicate Members and made available to all of them;
"Associated Equipment" means those items specified in Item 3 of Schedule 1;
"Glider" means a glider of the type and registration letters noted in Item 4 of Schedule 1;
"Gliding Syndicate" means a syndicate formed by the Syndicate Members for the purpose of storing, maintaining and flying the Glider;
"Licensee" means, where applicable, that person or persons as set out in Item 8 of Schedule 1 who hold a licence to occupy hanger or T-Hanger space on behalf of the Syndicate Members;
"Syndicate Members" means those persons listed in Item 1 of Schedule 1.

1.2	Interpretation
In this Agreement, unless the context otherwise requires:
(a)	headings and underlinings are for convenience only and do not affect the interpretation of this Agreement;
(b)	words importing the singular include the plural and vice versa;
(c)	words importing a gender include any gender;
(d)	a reference to a party to this Agreement or in any other document or agreement includes that party?s permitted successors and permitted assigns;
(e)	a covenant, agreement or acknowledgment on the part of, or in favour of, two or more persons, binds them or enures to their benefit jointly and severally.

2.	Commencement and Term

2.1	The Glider Syndicate will commence on the date specified in Item 2 of Schedule 1 ("the commencing date") and continue until terminated as provided in this Agreement.

2.2	The Gliding Syndicate shall continue for a minimum period from the commencing date as defined in Item 7 of Schedule 1. 

3.	Glider Licence


3.1	Each Syndicate Member must, at all times, be in flying currency and authorisation  and maintain all other ratings necessary to fly the Glider.

4.	Flying

4.1	The Glider, at all times, must only be flown:

(i)	within the limitations imposed by the Air Navigation Orders;

(ii)	within its technical limitations as specified by its Certificate of Airworthiness; and

(iii)	by Syndicate Members who have current qualifications necessary to fly the Glider.

4.2	Only Syndicate Members are permitted to fly the Glider unless otherwise previously agreed to by all other Syndicate Members.

5.	Use of the Glider and Associated Equipment

5.1	Syndicate Members shall have a right of usage of the Glider and Associated Equipment in each gliding season in proportion to their percentage of ownership in the Glider as specified in Item 5 of Schedule 1.

5.2	On the commencing date of the Gliding Syndicate each Syndicate Member shall specify which period(s) in the forthcoming gliding season they wish to have exclusive use of the Glider (which includes the use of the Associated Equipment). If two or more Syndicate Member's specify a period that is the same as, or overlaps with, a period specified by another Syndicate Member, then the dispute shall be resolved by a toss of a coin. 

5.3	Once the initial period(s) of exclusive use are agreed upon or resolved, they shall be rotated amongst the Syndicate Members in each and every subsequent gliding season. The order of rotation shall be such as to share the use of the Glider fairly amongst the Syndicate Members.

6.	Additional Equipment

6.1	The Additional Equipment specified in Schedule 2 shall be made available for use to all other Syndicate Members, from time to time, at the discretion of the owner(s) of such items and on the terms (if any) specified in Schedule 2.

6.2	If any or all of the Additional Equipment is damaged or destroyed by a Syndicate Member, or by a third party whilst in the possession of a Syndicate Member, then that Syndicate Member shall be liable to the owner of such equipment for its replacement or repair or for the payment of any insurance excess.

7.	Insurance

7.1	The Syndicate Members agree to take out and maintain throughout the duration of this Agreement the types of insurance and amounts of cover specified in Item 6 of Schedule 1.


7.2	If the Glider is damaged by a Syndicate Member, then that Syndicate Member shall contribute either the excess payable under the relevant policy of insurance (if any) or (if non or if insufficient) pay the cost of or balance of any repairs or replacements needed as a result of the damage so as to restore the Glider and the Associated Equipment/Additional Equipment to the condition it was in prior to the damage occurring.

8.	Duties

8.1	For the duration of this Agreement, Syndicate Member's must not sell, charge, encumber or otherwise dispose of their share in the Glider except as provided for in this Agreement.

9.	Authority

9.1	The Syndicate Members acknowledge and agree that they only have the power to bind the Gliding Syndicate to agreements that relate solely to the usual costs associated with the storage, maintenance and flying of the Glider. The unanimous approval from all Syndicate Members is required to bind the Gliding Syndicate to any other agreements or obligations.

10.	Bank Account

10.1	The Syndicate Members shall open and maintain a joint bank account with a bank, building society or credit union from which the storage, maintenance and flying costs of the Glider (including, but not limited to) insurance costs shall be paid. 

In this respect, each Syndicate Member must deposit their share of the costs into the bank account within three days of a bill being rendered or request made for any such payment.

10.2	Each Syndicate Member shall contribute to the costs referred to in clause 10.1 in proportions equal to their Ownership Percentage.

10.3	All cheques drawn on the bank account must be signed by two Syndicate Members.

11.	Termination

11.1	Subject to clause 2, if a Syndicate Member wishes to sell their share in the Glider ("the Share") then the following procedures must be followed:
(i)	the Syndicate Member (called the "Vendor") must make an offer to sell the Share
(ii)	the offer must be made to all existing Syndicate Members 
(iii)	the price must be the market price for one-third of the Glider and Associated Equipment
(iv)	the offer must be in writing

11.2	Existing Syndicate Members shall have six weeks from the time of receipt of the offer within which to accept the offer. Acceptance of the offer must be made in writing. If more than one Syndicate Member wishes to accept the offer then they shall purchase the Share together in equal shares unless otherwise agreed between us.


11.3	If the offer is not accepted by any Syndicate Member within the six week period or if all the Syndicate Members advise the Vendor prior to the that time they do not wish to purchase the Share then on the earlier of these dates the Vendor shall attempt to sell his Share of the Glider on the open market. If no buyer satisfactory to all the other Syndicate Members has been found within three months of this time (and in this respect the other Syndicate Members shall have full discretion as to whether or not to accept the proposed assignee of the Vendor?s Share) then at the end of that three month period the whole of the Glider and the Associated Equipment must be immediately advertised for sale at a realistic market price so that a buyer will be reasonably expected to be found within the six months.

11.4	Settlement of the sale and purchase of the Share or Glider and Associated Equipment, as the case may be, shall take place as follows:
(i)	in respect of the Share, within fifteen weeks from the date when the last Syndicate Member received notice in accordance with clause 11.1;
(ii)	in respect of the Glider and Associated Equipment, within two months of an offer to purchase being accepted.

11.5	The Syndicate Members agree that the Gliding Syndicate shall continue until the date of settlement.

12.	Disputes

12.1	Except where unanimous consent is required elsewhere in this Agreement, any disputes shall be decided by majority vote of Syndicate Members. In the event of a deadlock the casting vote shall be made by the President of the Gliding Club, from time to time, at which the Glider is stored.

13.	Notices

13.1	All notices must be in writing and can be sent by pre-paid post to the address of a Syndicate Member as shown in this Agreement or hand delivered. If sent by pre-paid post the notice is deemed to have arrived three days after posting.

14.	Severability

14.1	Any provision which is invalid or unenforceable by law shall be removed from this Agreement to the extent of its invalidity or unenforceability, and the remainder of this Agreement shall continue.

15.	Written amendment

15.1	No change or modification of this Agreement shall be valid unless made in writing and signed by all Syndicate Members.   

16.	Entire Agreement

16.1	This Agreement represents the entire understanding of the parties and supersedes and replaces all prior agreements amongst the parties.

[OPTIONAL PROVISION WHERE A LICENCE OF A T-HANGER IS INVOLVED]

17.	T-Hanger


17.1	Each Syndicate Member shall use the T-Hanger in accordance with the instructions issued by its licensee ("the Licensee") from time to time so as to comply with the terms of the licence agreement entered into between the Licensee and the licensor of the T-Hanger (?the Licence?).

17.2	The Syndicate Member who removes the Glider from the T-Hanger must ensure that the Glider is returned to the T-Hanger as soon as possible after use.

17.3	If the T-Hanger is damaged or destroyed by a Syndicate Member, or by an invitee of a Syndicate Member, then that Syndicate Member shall indemnify the Licensee for any and all costs and expenses incurred in repairing or replacing the T-Hanger as required pursuant to the terms of the licence agreement entered into between the Licensee and the licensor of the T-Hanger.

17.4	The Syndicate Members jointly and severally indemnify the Licensee in respect of any claim or demand made by a third party against the Licensee in any proceedings of any nature relating to the holding of the License.

17.5	In the event that the Licensee dies or the Licensee?s share only in the Glider is sold, the Licence must be assigned forthwith to the remaining members of the Gliding Syndicate, with the costs associated with the transfer of Licence being borne equally by the Licensee and the remaining Syndicate Members. 

17.6	In the event that the entirety of the Glider and Associated Equipment are sold to a third party pursuant to this Agreement then it shall be a condition of the sale that the Licence be transferred to the purchasing party with the costs of such transfer being borne by the purchasing party.


S C H E D U L E 1

Item 1:
Parties:



Item 2:
Commencing date:


Item 3:
Associated Equipment:


Item 4:
Glider:				


Item 5:
Ownership Percentage:	


Item 6:
Insurance:		(a)	full insurance for the Glider for $                  

(b)	a public liability insurance for $10 million
(c)	full replacement cover for the Associated Equipment for $                    
(d) hanger or T-Hanger
(e) Carriers Liability Act insurance
(f) (specify)


Item 7:
Minimum Period of Gliding
Syndicate:


Item 8:
Licensee(s):



SCHEDULE 2

Additional Equipment and terms of use (if any) (e.g obligation to insure or not to be used away from the home airfield etc.)









EXECUTED as an Agreement on the date specified in Item 2 of Schedule 1.




SIGNED by the said [insert name] in the presence of:




Signature of Witness




Name [BLOCK LETTERS]






SIGNED by the said [insert name] in the presence of:




Signature of Witness




Name [BLOCK LETTERS]






SIGNED by the said [insert name] in the presence of:




Signature of Witness




Name [BLOCK LETTERS]






DATED                                                                     2000





BETWEEN:





AND:





AND:












GLIDER SYNDICATE AGREEMENT








MatthewsFolbigg
Solicitors
Level 7/10-14 Smith Street
PARRAMATTA  2150
DX 8233 PARRAMATTA
Tele: (02) 635 7966
Fax: (02) 689 3494
Our Ref: Paul Matthews
Email: pbm@mflaw.com.au


