									
Retail Tenancy Unit

Mediation agreement

This agreement is between the following:

First party		
and
Second party											
and 
Mediator											
The parties appoint the mediator to mediate the issues between them in accordance with the terms of this agreement.  
											
Role of the parties

1. All parties to the dispute will attend the mediation or send a representative with authority to act on the party's behalf. If a party refuses to attend the mediation, the other party may request a certificate from the Registrar of Retail Tenancy Disputes, which will indicate that mediation did not occur because a party refused to attend. Either party may then choose to take the matter to the Administrative Decisions Tribunal or appropriate court.

2. The parties acknowledge the following rules of conduct are fundamental to the effectiveness of the mediation:

a. Courtesy - parties will treat each other with respect and courtesy and will not make inflammatory statements or personal attacks.

b. Listening to others - parties will listen to each other and the mediator and consider what everyone has to say.

c. Good faith - parties will make a serious attempt to resolve the issues at hand and cooperate in trying to find a resolution to the dispute.

d. Honesty - parties will approach the mediation in an open, honest manner. A failure to act honestly may void any agreement reached in the mediation.

e. Cooperation - parties will cooperate with the mediator's requests for private sessions and any requests regarding the management of the mediation process that do not disadvantage them.

3. The parties recognise they are responsible for resolving the dispute and the mediator's role is to facilitate this process in a neutral and impartial way. The parties are not bound by any comments, opinions, suggestions, statements or recommendations made by the mediator. 

4. Parties are encouraged to seek legal or other professional advice about their rights and obligations in relation to the dispute and the mediation.
5. Parties may bring legal representatives or another person to the mediation to assist and advise them. These persons must sign the confidentiality agreement, attached to and incorporated within this agreement. The Retail Tenancy Unit (RTU) should be notified that others will be attending.

6. Parties are encouraged to consider settling some of the issues being mediated, where a complete settlement cannot be reached.

Authority

7. If a party to the dispute is a company or organisation, or if a party itself is unable to attend the mediation, the party must appoint a representative to act on its behalf. This person must have knowledge of the dispute and full and flexible authority to negotiate and enter into binding agreements to settle the dispute within any range which can reasonably be anticipated. 

8. When a party does not or cannot have unlimited authority, that party must at the beginning of the mediation disclose this in general terms to the other party and in more detail to the mediator, so that the mediator and parties can decide whether or not they are willing to go ahead with the mediation. It may be sufficient for the person with limited authority to give an assurance that the party s/he represents will be contactable during the mediation or that s/he expects any agreements reached at the mediation to be accepted by the party s/he represents.

Role of the mediator

9. The mediator will facilitate clear and effective communication between the parties in a neutral and impartial manner. Where appropriate the mediator will assist the parties in:
a. Identifying the issues in dispute.
b. Identifying the parties' interests.
c. Joint problem solving and brainstorming to generate options to resolve the dispute.
d. Reality testing any options and proposals.

10. Before the mediation, the mediator will disclose any personal interest and/or any prior dealing s/he can recall having with any person present at the mediation or any person known to have a material interest in the outcome of the mediation.

11. If something happens during the mediation which affects the mediator's ability to act impartially, the mediator will immediately inform the parties. The parties will then decide whether or not to continue the mediation or to have another mediator appointed.

12. The mediator will not act as an advisor, advocate, arbitrator or judge during the mediation or in any subsequent legal proceedings relating to the issues raised in mediation. 

13. The mediator is not responsible for ensuring that any settlement agreement reached by the parties at the mediation is either valid or enforceable.

14. The mediator will not disclose information received in confidence from a party to the other party without the disclosing party's permission. 

Role of legal advisors

15. Legal advisors are encouraged to participate in the mediation by advising and assisting their clients and discussing legal matters that arise. 

16. Legal advisors are encouraged to discuss with their clients the possible benefits of settling some of the issues being mediated if an overall settlement cannot be reached.

17. Legal advisors are expected to assist the parties in preparing any written settlement agreement reached by the parties at the end of the mediation.

Confidentiality

18. The parties and the mediator will not disclose to anyone not involved in the mediation any confidential or privileged information or document given to them during the mediation, including the preliminary steps, unless required by law, except for
a. the purpose of obtaining professional advice, or
    b. with the consent of each other party to the mediation, or 
    c. in the circumstances set out in clause 26.

In these exceptions, the party must advise the person that the information or document is confidential and will ensure that the person will observe this clause and clause 19.

19. Subject to clause 26, the parties and the mediator agree the following cannot be used as evidence or relied on in any legal proceedings in relation to the dispute:
    a. statements, views expressed and suggestions or proposals made in the mediation;
    b. documents prepared and produced for the mediation;
    c. admissions made in the mediation; and
    d. indications made by a party that they are willing to accept a proposal, 
except where those matters are otherwise not confidential or privileged. 

20. Evidence and other material, which is otherwise admissible or discoverable, whether or not discussed in the mediation, does not become inadmissible or undiscoverable because it was used in the mediation.

21. The mediation and any communications relating to the mediation, with the exception of any settlement agreement executed by the parties, shall be without prejudice, except in the circumstances described in clause 26.

22. The parties may not compel the mediator or RTU staff or any person present at the mediation or to whom information about the mediation is disclosed to testify in any legal proceedings about confidential or privileged information disclosed during the mediation or communicated to the mediator in confidence, except in the circumstances described in clause 26.

23. The mediator and the RTU may disclose information about the mediation, which cannot identify the parties, for research, educational and statistical reporting purposes.

Termination of the mediation

24. Each of the mediator and the parties has the right to terminate the mediation if the mediator or the parties believe the issues cannot be resolved at the mediation. The mediator and the parties will discuss and document any decision to terminate. The Registrar of Retail Tenancy Disputes may decide to issue a certificate that indicates the mediation failed to resolve all or some of the issues being mediated.




Settlement agreement

25. No party will be bound by anything said or done in the mediation unless a written settlement agreement is reached and executed by all necessary parties. A written and correctly executed agreement is binding on all parties to the mediation.  

26. Either party may enforce the terms of the settlement agreement through legal proceedings in the Administrative Decisions Tribunal or a court, as appropriate. In the proceedings, a party may use this mediation agreement as evidence and may call the mediator or persons present at the mediation to give evidence limited to the terms of the settlement agreement.

Cost of the mediation 

27. The parties will share equally and will be individually liable for the mediation fees. The RTU will collect the mediation fees from the parties. 

28. Each party will pay its own costs of attending the mediation, unless otherwise agreed.

29. Each party will pay the mediation fees according to the arrangements described in the letter confirming mediation.

30. A party will have to pay a late cancellation fee if the party cancels or postpones the mediation, unless at least three working days notice is given to the RTU. The late cancellation fee is equivalent to the fee for three hours of mediation.

31. If mediation does not resolve the dispute and the dispute is subject to further legal proceedings, the costs of mediation may form part of a costs claim in those proceedings.

32. The RTU will provide tax invoices if required.

33. If a party seeks to call the mediator to give evidence or produce documents in legal proceedings relating to this dispute, that party agrees to pay the mediator for any expenses, time and other costs incurred as a result.

Exclusion of liability and indemnity

34. The parties jointly and individually release and indemnify the mediator in respect of all liability of any kind (whether involving negligence or not) which may arise in connection to or relate in any way to the mediation.

35. The mediator will not be liable to a party for any act or omission in or relating to the performance of the mediator's obligations in the mediation, unless the act or omission is fraudulent.

36. No statements or comments made in the mediation can be relied on in an action for defamation, libel, or slander. This document may be used to prevent any such action.

Privacy

37. Any personal information collected by either party or the mediator about another person during the mediation is protected by the Privacy and Personal Information Protection Act 1998 (NSW). 

38. Any personal information collected will only be used by the RTU for the purpose of contacting parties, organising the mediation and for obtaining feedback about the mediation.  

39. The mediator will take all reasonable steps available to him/her to ensure that personal information will only be collected from the parties during the mediation where it is strictly necessary to conduct the mediation. 

40. The mediator will take all reasonable steps to ensure that any personal information collected will not be used by the mediator for any other purpose, including for future referral work, and that it will not be disclosed to any other person who is not a party to the mediation.  

41. Any party may have access to their personal information by contacting the Deputy Registrar at the RTU on 02 8222 4800.

42. If a party is not satisfied with or aggrieved by the conduct of the mediator they should contact the Deputy Registrar at the RTU on 02 8222 4800 to discuss the matter.

Contact details

Address			Level 43, MLC Centre, 19 Martin Place Sydney NSW 2000
Postal address		GPO Box 5477 Sydney NSW 2001
Telephone 		02 8222 4800
Fax 			02 8222 4816
Toll free 		1300 795 534
Email			rtu@business.nsw.gov.au
Website		www.retail.nsw.gov.au

Signing of the mediation agreement

The parties and the mediator have signed this mediation agreement as follows:


Name of party		

Signature 		

Print name 		

Date 			

Name of party		

Signature		

Print name		
	
Date			 

Name of mediator	

Signature 		

Date 				


Confidentiality agreement

To be signed by third parties and advisers present at the mediation

In consideration of my being allowed to be involved in or observe the mediation of the dispute described in the mediation agreement to which this agreement is attached, I independently and separately agree with each of the parties and the mediator that:

I will not disclose to anyone not involved in the mediation any confidential or privileged information or document given to me during the mediation, unless required by law, except 

    a. for the purpose of obtaining professional advice, or 
    b. with the consent of each party to the mediation, or 
c. if I am compelled to give evidence in legal proceedings relating to the terms of the settlement agreement.

In these exceptions, I will advise the person to whom I disclose the information or document that it is confidential and will ensure that person observes clauses 18 and 19 of the mediation agreement.


Dated 


Name and address (please print)
Signature




2


Mediation agreement 0407 		 Page 2 of 6


Mediation agreement 0407 		Page 1 of 6
		            


