NON-DISCLOSURE AGREEMENT


This Agreement entered into as of................ day of  ............ 2007, between
Simulation Industry Association of Australia Limited  ABN 13 087 862 619, located at Suite 1, 90B Pacific Highway, Roseville 2069 (hereinafter referred to as "SIAA").
and <Name>  of <Address>. (hereinafter referred to as <Name>).
WITNESSETH THAT: It is agreed between the Parties to enter into this  Agreement for "Confidential Information", as hereunder defined, for the purpose of performing a Professional Certification assessment of an Applicant on behalf of the SIAA.
This agreement sets forth the terms and conditions applicable to all transmittals of such Confidential  Information by each of the parties to the other, as follows:
a.	For purposes of this Agreement, and subject to clause c) below, the term "Confidential  Information" shall mean and include all documentation which is included in an Applicant's application, or associated assessments from other Agents of the SIAA involved in the Professional Certification assessment of an Applicant.  The term shall also mean and include information which is orally or otherwise disclosed, in non-documented form.
b.	For purposes of this Agreement, the term "Agent of the SIAA" shall mean a person with whom the SIAA has agreed to be involved with the assessment of the SIAA's Professional Certification scheme.
c.	The term "Confidential  Information" shall not mean or include:
(1) Information which is in the public domain at the time of transmittal or which subsequently comes into the public domain without violation of a obligation of confidence assumed hereunder;
(2) Information received from a third party without violation of an obligation of confidence to the transmitting Party; or
(3) Information which the recipient Party can show by written record to have been in its possession at the time of transmittal.
d.	With respect to all Confidential Information disclosed hereunder, the recipient Party agrees that such Party shall not:
(1) Use such information except for purposes of its business relationship with the disclosing party; or
(2) Disclose such information to any third party, excepting only to those other Agents involved in the SIAA Professional Certification assessment of the Applicant, and who require information which is necessary to implement the mutual interests of the two Parties. Only those Agents who have signed a Non-Disclosure Agreement with SIAA, may receive information from another Agent. The Parties, may also disclose such information to a third party if consent for further disclosure is given in writing by the Applicant.
e.	The Parties will retain Confidential Information under their sole control in a location accessible only to the recipient party, and any copies made will also be controlled as above.




f.          Each Party acknowledges and agrees that damages would not be an adequate remedy for a breach of any of the provisions of the Agreement; therefore the disclosing party being either SIAA or Applicant, shall be entitled to seek injunctive (final, interlocutory and provisional or preliminary) and other equitable relief.
g.	If <Name> ceases to be an Agent of the SIAA, <Name> shall return promptly to SIAA, or destroy, all Confidential Information received during all assessments, together with all copies,  within ten (10) working  days of such cessation. The Agent shall provide to SIAA in writing, confirmation of the destruction of such Confidential Information.
h.	The obligation of confidentiality, non-disclosure and non-use shall terminate five (5) years after each Applicant's assessment.
i.        This Agreement shall be governed by and interpreted in accordance with the laws of the State of New South Wales, Australia.

The witness hereof, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement as of the day and year first above written.


Per:	   .......................................... 
Name:      Peter Hill
Title:	    Executive Officer
Company: Simulation Industry Association of Australia Limited
Per: 	   .......................................... 
Name:	   <Name>
Title:	
Company:
Date:	   ..........................................

Witness   ..........................................
Date:	  ..........................................

Witness  ..........................................


Non Disclosure Agreement		SIAA Ltd
<Name>		20 November 2007

		Page 1 of 2

