The Licensor shall give the Licensee the number of copies of the Work in CD-Rom format as is specified in Section E of the Schedule.

The Work may not be used by the Licensee except for the purposes of tertiary education.

(a) Subject to Clause 6.1(b) but without limiting Clause 6.3, the Licensor makes no representation that the use of the Work will not infringe any third person's rights, including, without limitation, any third person's patent rights or copyright.

On termination of the Licence for any reason, the Licensee loses all right to use the Work and must immediately return all copies of the Work to the Licensor.

The Licensee shall not modify the Work or merge all or any part of the Work with other programs or reverse engineer the Work without the Licensor's consent.

if the housesitter is responsible for the presence of an infectious disease or an infestation of rats, cockroaches, fleas or other pests the housesitter shall inform the homeowner or contact and bear

iTEL may add features to a Base Hosting Package without prior notice to the Customer.

iTEL may remove features of a Base Hosting Package used by the Customer only upon prior notice to the Customer.

iTEL will host the Customer's website, and if required by the Customer, make it generally available to Internet users.

iTEL may provide software or automated services to assist the Customer develop the Customer's website.

The Customer can change and update the Customer's website using FTP access and other methods made available by iTEL from time to time.

iTEL may add Optional Services and features to Optional Services without prior notice to the Customer.

In respect of Optional Services selected by the Customer, iTEL may remove Optional Services and features of Optional Services only upon prior notice to the Customer.

The Customer must have a Base Hosting Package as a precondition to obtaining Optional Services.

iTEL will not refund any establishment fees or "pay in advance" fees if the Customer:

iTEL may vary its Price List at any time in accordance with clause 16 of this Agreement.

Upon termination of this Agreement, the Customer will be provided with an invoice in relation to services used prior to termination.

Upon termination of this Agreement, iTEL may delete the Customer's website from iTEL's computer system or prevent access to the Customer's website.

Each Registered User of the Customer will have:

All access to and use of any iTEL services under a User ID and password will be assumed to be access and use by the Registered User to whom the User ID has been allocated.

The Customer and its Registered Users must not permit another person to access iTEL's service using a User ID allocated to a Registered User of the Customer.

The Customer cannot resell, on-sell or on-provide iTEL's services to third parties.

The Customer must not do any Prohibited Acts.

The Customer must instruct all the Customer's Registered Users not to do any Prohibited Acts.

If the Base Hosting Package is cancelled or suspended pursuant to clause 11.2, then all the Customer's Optional Services will be cancelled or suspended.

iTEL may temporarily suspend an iTEL service if necessary to allow iTEL to perform maintenance of iTEL's hardware or software.

The Customer warrants that the Customer's website does not and will not infringe the intellectual property rights of any other person.

Without limiting clause 15.1, the Customer indemnifies, will defend and hold iTEL harmless from any claim, action, loss, damage, expense, or cost (including all legal costs and fees) arising out of or resulting from any claimed or actual intellectual property infringement by the Customer or relating to the Customer's website.

iTEL may require the Customer to change an iTEL e-mail or web address selected by the Customer.

Subject to technical limitations, use of an iTEL e-mail address may be transferred to another Customer upon consent of the Customer associated with the e-mail address.

Due to technology, iTEL does not warrant that the Customer's website will be accessible at all times or that any of iTEL's service will be uninterrupted or error free.

iTEL may vary the terms of this Agreement by written notice to the Customer.

If iTEL changes the details or pricing for a Base Hosting Service or Optional Service not used by the Customer or if the change will not effect the Customer, iTEL needs not to notify the Customer.

The Customer may change the Customer's address, email or fax details by providing written notice to ITEL.

Written notice may be given by the Customer to iTEL only by e-mail to the following e-mail address:

The Customer must pay to iTEL any additional amount which iTEL determines represents any GST payable by iTEL for which iTEL is not entitled to an input tax credit.

"GST" means any goods and services tax or any similar tax which may be imposed in Australia and have application to the supply of iTEL's services.

The Customer may not transfer this Agreement or any service provided under this Agreement without iTEL's prior written consent.

The Customer may not set-off any claim against amounts payable to ITEL.

iTEL may, but is under no obligation to, monitor the Customer's website (including non-public sections) to ensure compliance with this Agreement and for any other reason considered appropriate by ITEL.

If there is an express inconsistency between this document and a Schedule or Price List, then the Schedule or Price List will prevail.

The Organisation must commence the Activity [choose the most appropriate no later than / on] [insert Activity Start Date] and must complete the Activity by [insert Activity Completion Date].

For the purpose of serving notices to either Party of this Agreement, a notice must be in writing and shall be treated as having been duly given and received:

For the purposes of this Agreement, the address of a Party is the address set out below or another address of which that Party may give notice in writing to the other Party:

The Organisation must carry out the Activity in accordance with the Activity Proposal and the terms and conditions of this Deed.

The Organisation must advise AusAID immediately of any difficulties or delays in implementation of the Activity.

The Organisation shall acknowledge in writing to AusAID receipt of the Funds immediately on its receipt.

The Funds and any interest earned or exchange rate gains must be used diligently and for the sole purpose of the Activity outlined in Schedule 1 of this Agreement.

The Organisation shall acknowledge AusAID funding assistance provided under this Deed where appropriate and advise AusAID of matters relating to any publicity and media relations, prior to any publication or media release.

The Organisation must not represent itself and must ensure that its volunteers, employees, agents and sub-contractors participating in the Activity do not represent themselves as being employees, partners or agents of the Commonwealth of Australia.

The Organisation must not assign its interest in this Agreement without first obtaining the consent in writing of AusAID.

AusAID or the Organisation may propose amendments to this Agreement at any time for the purpose of improving the delivery of the Activity, the efficiency, cost-effectiveness and development impact of the Activity.

Changes to this Agreement (including to Schedule 1 and any annexes) shall only be effected if agreed in writing and signed by both Parties in the form of a Deed of Amendment.

The Organisation must not use the Funds to acquire any asset, apart from those detailed in the Activity Proposal without obtaining AusAID's prior written approval.

If the Funds are being used to procure goods, the Organisation must ensure in its procurement of the goods that:

If the Funds are being used to procure goods, the Organisation must maintain a Register of Activity Assets.

The Organisation must, if required by AusAID, permit AusAID to monitor and/or evaluate the Activity and/or use of the Funds.

The Organisation must at all times indemnify AusAID, its employees, agents and contractors (except the Organisation) ("those indemnified") from and against any loss or liability whatsoever suffered by those indemnified or arising from any claim, suit, demand, action or proceeding by any person against any of those indemnified where such loss or liability was caused or contributed to in any way by any wilfully wrongful, unlawful or negligent act or omission of the Organisation, or any of the Organisation's personnel in connection with this Agreement.

The Organisation agrees that AusAID may enforce the indemnity in favour of the persons specified in Clause 8.1 above for the benefit of each of such persons in the name of AusAID or of such persons.

This indemnity shall survive termination or expiration of this Agreement.

The title to all intellectual property rights in or in relation to Agreement Material created during the course of the Activity shall vest in AusAID upon its creation.

The Organisation and its personnel must have regard to and comply with, relevant and applicable laws, guidelines, regulations and policies, including those in Australia and in the Partner Country.

The Organisation must comply with:

The Organisation must use its best endeavours to ensure:

If, during the course of this Agreement, the Organisation is listed on a World Bank List or Similar List it must inform AusAID immediately.

The Organisation must report in writing within five (5) working days to AusAID any detected, suspected, or attempted Fraudulent Activity involving the Activity.

The obligations of the Organisation under paragraphs (b) and (c) above shall survive the expiration of this Agreement.

The Organisation warrants that the Organisation shall not make or cause to be made, nor shall the Organisation receive or seek to receive, any offer, gift or payment, consideration or benefit of any kind, which would or could be construed as an illegal or corrupt practice, either directly or indirectly to any party, as an inducement or reward in relation to the execution of this Agreement.

In addition, either Party may terminate this Agreement by giving to the other a notice to terminate in writing stating the reasons for termination.

AusAID may terminate this Agreement immediately by notice in writing to the Organisation if the Organisation breaches any of its obligations under Clause 10.

In the event of any termination, the Organisation must provide an Independently Audited statement of expenditure of the Funds within thirty (30) days of the date of the notice to terminate, signed by the head of the Organisation, and return any uncommitted unspent Funds to AusAID.

In the event that a notice to terminate is given by either party AusAID shall not be liable to pay compensation in an amount which, in addition to any amounts paid or due or becoming due to the Organisation under this Agreement, together would exceed the amount of the total financial limitation of this Agreement, as specified in clause headed 'Funds and Payment'.

The bank account used by the Organisation must be in the name of the Organisation and must not be a personal bank account.

The Organisation must maintain a sound administrative and financial system capable of verifying all statements of acquittal.

AusAID may disclose matters relating to this Agreement, including this Agreement, and other relevant information, except where such information may breach the Privacy Act 1988 (Cth), to Commonwealth governmental departments and agencies, Commonwealth Ministers and Parliamentary Secretaries, and to the Commonwealth Parliament, including responding to requests for information from Parliamentary committees or inquiries.

Within thirty (30) days of completion of the Activity the Organisation shall submit a final report which provides a brief outline of the Activity and in more detail covers key outcomes compared with objectives, development impact, sustainability and lessons learned.

Attached to this report will be a statement acquitting all Funds ('final Funds acquittal').

The final report and attached statement acquitting all Funds should be sent to:

Funds up to a maximum of [Insert currency and value], plus GST if any up to a maximum amount of [Insert currency and 10% of value if this is an Australian Organisation only] shall be payable as an acquittable grant by AusAID in milestones divided as follows:

Invoices must be submitted when due in accordance with this Agreement, in a form identifying this Agreement title and Agreement number 00000.

All invoices must be made to:

Where Australian GST applies to this Agreement all invoices must be in the form of a valid tax invoice.

The Grantee will provide the following:

The Grantee must maintain full levels of insurance cover to properly protect its and DVA's interests for the Project.

The Delegate may require the account referred to in clause 3.1 to be used solely for the Project.

Where the Grantee has unspent moneys belonging to the Grant, recovery of the moneys may be made.

The Grantee agrees to issue a tax invoice to DVA within 28 days of the request of DVA in relation to the Grant unless it has been agreed between the parties by a Deed of Agreement that the DVA shall issue a Recipient Created Tax Invoice (RCTI).

A tax invoice must include the information as set out in Part G [Invoices for GST Purposes].

A RCTI shall include the information as set out in Part G [Invoices for GST Purposes]

The ownership of the Project Material shall vest in the Grantee.

This clause 12 may be supplemented by information agreed to in Part N [Intellectual Property Ownership and Rights].

The Grantee's liability under this clause 14 will reduce proportionally to the extent that DVA was at fault in contributing to the Loss.

[Cooperation] Where a party has breached this Agreement in any way (default) it should take active measures to rectify the default as soon as possible, including discussing appropriate options with the other parties.

DVA may, by notice in writing, terminate this Agreement, if the Grantee:

can be varied only in writing signed by the parties' authorised representatives;

Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement or any Security, but subject to Clauses 2.7, 2.8 and 2.9, if the First Security Holder, pursuant to any enforcement action taken under its First Security, sells or otherwise disposes of any asset subject to the Second Security or notifies the Second Security Holder that it will do so, the Second Security Holder must unconditionally and irrevocably release the relevant asset from its Second Security as soon as possible and in any event within 5 Business Days of receipt of a written notice from the First Security Holder requiring it to do so.

The Director-General may exercise an option under Clause 2.7(a) by providing written notice to the First Security Holder within 20 Business Days of receiving a notice under Clause 2.7(a).

Each Security Holder must use its reasonable endeavours to give the other Security Holder notice of a Potential Default within a reasonable period after becoming aware of that Potential Default.

Within 10 Business Days following receipt of a notice of Potential Default under Clause 2.10(a), the Security Holders must meet to discuss the Potential Default and any steps that either of them may consider reasonably necessary in the circumstances.

Each Security Holder acknowledges that it shall have no rights against the other Security Holder for failing to provide a notice required under Clause 2.10(a).

3.1 will not prevent either party from applying to a court at any stage for injunctive or other relief.

If GST is payable on a Taxable Supply made under, by reference to or in connection with this Agreement, the party providing the Consideration for that Taxable Supply must also pay the GST Amount as additional Consideration.

Any reference in the calculation of Consideration or of any indemnity, reimbursement or similar amount to a cost, expense or other liability incurred by a party must exclude the amount of any Input Tax Credit entitlement of that party in relation to the relevant cost, expense or other liability.

No payment of any amount pursuant to Clause 4(a), and no payment of the GST Amount where the Consideration for a Taxable Supply is expressly agreed to be GST inclusive, is required until the supplier has provided a Tax Invoice or Adjustment Note as the case may be to the recipient.

Subject to paragraph (b), a Security Holder may assign or transfer all or any of his or her rights or obligations under this Agreement with the written consent of the other Security Holder.

The Director-General may assign all of his or her rights or obligations under this Agreement in accordance with the Associated Operator Direct Agreement.

The Associated Operator may not assign or otherwise transfer any of its rights or obligations under this Agreement except in accordance with the Associated Operator Direct Agreement and with the consent of the Financier.

must be in writing and signed by a person duly authorised by the sender;

The minimum hours of duty for a part-time employee shall be three hours for each shift.

For the purposes of this definition, any hours worked by an employee to replace temporarily another employee absent from duty that are in addition to those for which the employee is normally rostered, shall not affect the original contract of employment.

A part-time employee shall work regular hours and days in accordance with the conditions laid down in this agreement.

For ordinary working hours, a part-time employee shall be paid the hourly rate as defined by the position description and in accordance with clause 10.

If a part-time staff member is to undertake another project within VCOSS, they shall have their employment extended (e.g.

An employee specifically engaged on a casual basis shall be engaged for a minimum period of three hours each shift.

Subject to subclause 7.3.4, a casual employee shall be employed for an average of fifteen hours or less per week.

A person employed on a casual basis to work part-time or full-time as defined in this agreement, shall not be engaged for any period exceeding thirteen weeks.

Where a person is employed pursuant to subclause 7.3.4, where that person is reemployed by VCOSS within four weeks of the termination of the previous work period, for the purposes of this agreement, the period between engagements shall be deemed leave without pay and not a new contract of employment.

A casual employee shall be informed in writing upon engagement that:

At the time of engagement the employer shall advise the employee in writing that:

A fixed term employee shall not be employed to fill a position previously held by a permanent employee.

This agreement shall apply to the fixed term employee except to the extent that the agreement expressly provides that it does not apply.

If a fixed term employee is subsequently appointed to a permanent position with the employer, any period of the fixed term contract completed immediately prior to the commencement of the permanent position shall be recognised as service with the employer for the purpose of calculating leave entitlements, pursuant to clause 7.10, provided that the employee has not taken or received a redundancy payment.

A replacement employee shall be engaged in accordance with clause 7.4 of this agreement.

VCOSS will not enter into any separate employment contracts with staff members outside of this agreement (excluding Chief Executive Officer).

VCOSS positions to be occupied by staff employed on a job share basis should be negotiated with the line manager and Chief Executive Officer and any other Unit staff whose work may be affected by a job share situation.

If either employee in a job share position resigns or is dismissed their position will be offered to the incumbent in the first instance.

A request for 'secondment' to another position outside the organisation should be made to the line manager and/or Chief Executive Officer in the first instance.

A full time, part time or fixed term employee required to attend for jury service during their ordinary working hours shall be reimbursed by the employer an amount equal to the difference between the amount paid in respect of their attendance for such jury service and the amount of wages thy would have received in respect of the ordinary time they would have worked had they not been on jury service.

An employee shall notify the employer as soon as possible of the date upon which they are required to attend for jury service.

hours per week and shall be worked in accordance with clause 12.2.

Every employee working a full day, however defined, shall be entitled to at least two 15 minute paid breaks from duty additional to their lunch break so as to allow physical relaxation and regeneration of concentration levels.

(casual employees will receive the wage equivalent),

Accrual of time in lieu must not exceed 37.5 hours in total, pro rata, and must be taken within six months, unless exceptional circumstances prevent this from occurring.

Staff may elect to use the flexi-time system to work up a day off (or part of a day).

Unless exceptional circumstances apply, staff may accumulate up to a maximum of 37.5 hours flexitime, pro rata, which is to be taken within a three month period as negotiated with the line manager in order to accommodate operational requirements.

Staff wishing to work at home must reach agreement with their line manager.

Authorisation to work at home may be sought in the following circumstances:

Any pre-determined working at home time should be discussed with the line manager.

All staff members shall be able to use up to five days in any one year either from their own sick leave entitlements, or apply for unpaid leave, (if they have used up their own entitlements), for the purpose of caring for sick family or household members or in extreme compassionate circumstances.

17.1 of this agreement, and, where necessary, disciplinary action will be taken in accordance with clause 17.2.

VCOSS will comply with the 1985 Occupational Health and Safety Act (Vic.

In the first instance, the employee shall attempt to resolve the grievance with the other party concerned.

In situations where it is clear that the employees are unable to rectify the situation without the input of a third party, staff may seek support from their line manager.

If the employee still feels aggrieved, he/ she shall inform the Chief Executive Officer who shall consult with the parties.

If after all reasonable steps have been taken in an endeavour to resolve the grievance, as detailed above, and the grievance remains unsolved, then the employee representative shall be advised in writing and a meeting arranged with employer representative and the employee representative.

If the grievance still exists the matter may be referred to an appropriate body, e.g.

Steps 1 to 4 shall take place within ten working days.

Employees may seek mediation from steps 2 to 4 if mutually agreed upon.

At any point during this procedure an employee shall have the right to seek advice and support from their representative and/or VCOSS JCC.

Until the grievance is determined, work shall continue normally in accordance with the custom and practice existing before the grievance while discussions take place, as long as this is mutually agreed upon by the parties involved.

The Student must not, without the University's written consent, deal with the Intellectual Property in a manner which is inconsistent with the provisions of this Deed.

Where the Student is entitled to received payment under clause 4.1 of this Deed, that payment will be paid to the Student in arrears on calendar quarters starting on the calendar quarter after the University received the first payment from which the Student will receive a payment.

The Student will be responsible for any personal tax implications as a result of payments or equity received pursuant to this clause 4.0.

chosen at item 1(a) above, then this item should be completed "Not Applicable"

that the Work is and will be original to the Author who is the author of the Work and is and will be the sole and unencumbered owner of Copyright in the Work (except in respect of materials included in the Work the Copyright of which is owned by third parties [such as, but not limited to, text passages, quotes, figures, and data] that carry a clear identification of the original source, with permission notices from the Copyright owners where required, and for which the Author has at the Author's own expense obtained permission for their use in the Publication)

that the Work contains nothing libelous or otherwise unlawful, does not infringe any rights of other parties and does not contain any recipe, formula or instruction which if followed accurately would cause injury or damage

(d) of this Clause stipulates that the Author must seek permission to reproduce the Work in cases not covered by (b) or (c) of this Clause.

The Author shall be permitted to reproduce or to authorize others to reproduce the Work, or material extracted verbatim from the Work, or works deriving from the Work for the Author's personal use, provided that the source and the Publisher's copyright notice are included in each such reproduction and that such reproduction is not used in any way that implies the Publisher's endorsement of any product or service, and that such reproduction is not offered for sale.

The Author may make limited distribution of all or portions of the Work prior to publication provided the Author informs the Publisher of the nature and extent of such limited distribution before such distribution takes place.

If it is desired to reproduce the Work in circumstances not covered by (b), or (c) of this Clause, the Author shall request permission from the Publisher to reproduce or authorize the reproduction of the Work or material extracted verbatim from the Work, including figures and tables.

'All Media Rights' shall mean the sole and exclusive right to exploit the Work and any parts in all forms of media whether in existence now or created in the future including but not limited to:

take whatever action is necessary to ensure that terrorists can be prosecuted under relevant criminal law; and

A variation pursuant to this clause will be in writing, signed by all Parties to this Agreement, and notice thereof will immediately following such signature be given to all the Parties.

A Party to this Agreement may, by written notice to all other Parties, withdraw from this Agreement and such notice will take effect six months from the date of that notice.

Each Party acknowledges and agrees that it will not have any claim, ownership or interest in the other Party's Background Intellectual Property or Improvements in such Background Intellectual Property.

shall be deemed deleted but only to the extent necessary and the remaining provisions of this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect.

Subject to the early termination of this Agreement for default of one party, this Agreement will continue in force for a minimum period of 1 year ("the minimum term").

After expiry of the minimum term, either party may terminate this Agreement by service of written notice on the other party no less than 6 months prior to the date of termination.

AHFWC will, subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, undertake all processes necessary to produce wine ("the wine") in accordance with the normal standards of the practice of winemaking (such service being hereinafter referred to as "the winemaking) from the base products provided to it by the Client comprising either grapes, juice or wine ("Base Product").

AHFWC will carry out the winemaking in a conscientious and professional fashion.

Subject to prior arrangements having been made by the Client, meet with the Client for the purpose of reporting as to production, at such times during business hours as may be reasonably required by the Client.

The Client must, no less than 5 days prior to the anticipated harvest date of the grapes, provide a written notice to AHFWC of:

AHFWC will, upon request, assist the Client at such time as the Client reasonably requires (at no charge to the Client) with the preparation of the notice under Clause 4.2.

AHFWC recognises the need for the client to have independent winemaking and viticultural advice and will upon request of the client cooperate with such consultants as the client wishes to employ.

No less than 24 hours prior to the anticipated harvest date, AHFWC will provide written confirmation of arrangements for receipt of the grapes.

The Client must inform AHFWC immediately in the event of any variation to the anticipated harvest date and thereafter, the Client must, not less than 12 hours prior to the proposed delivery of the grapes, make arrangements for the re-scheduling of such delivery.

AHFWC must take all reasonable action to promptly give to the Client notice of any re-scheduling of grape receival due to winery logistics or mechanical failure or other factors outside the reasonable control of AHFWC.

The Client will deliver the grapes in sound condition to AHFWC 5A/1 Adelaide Lobethal Road, Lobethal SA 5241 ("the Winery") receival area and pay any cartage applicable.

Delivery scheduling will be agreed between AHFWC and the Client.

In the event of parcels of Base Products received by AHFWC weighing less than 500kg ("minor parcels"), in the interests if wine quality and logistics of handling, AHFWC may in its absolute discretion, amalgamate such minor parcels with other parcels of base product.

In amalgamating minor parcels, AHFWC will endeavour to amalgamate such parcels with other parcels of similar variety and styles.

AHFWC cannot and does not guarantee that wine produced from minor parcels is solely sourced from Base Product supplied by the Client.

In the event of parcels of Base Product inspected in the vineyard, or received at the winery showing disease problems which would significantly and adversely affect final wine quality, AHFWC must provide to the Client a report.

Upon provision of a report under clause 5.4, AHFWC will take no further action in relation to the Base Product until the Client provides written instructions to AHFWC on how to proceed.

AHFWC will undertake basic laboratory analysis of each ferment batch including assessing the pH, S02 (free and total), Baume and total acidity.

AHFWC will provide and use such additives as are necessary including yeast strains agreed with the Client, S02 and bentonite (if required).

AHFWC will include such further additives as the Client may require.

AHFWC will maintain Product and Public liability insurance to a sum of no less then $10 million and accidental damage insurance to a sum no less than $250,000.00.

The Client will make good to AHFWC any damage caused to AHFWC equipment by material other than Base Product which maybe delivered at the same time as the delivery of the Base Product.

The risk of the Base Products, whilst at the Client's premises, AHFWC's premises or otherwise, will remain with the Client and the Client is solely responsible for insuring such risk.

Any responsibility that AHFWC may have for the Base Products ceases as soon as the Base Products leave the winery premises, namely at the end of the winery's hose or when bottled wine is loaded onto a vehicle.

For the purpose referred to in Clause 11.1, AHFWC may, subject to Clause 11.3 but otherwise in its absolute discretion:

The Client will reimburse AHFWC for the following items procured for or on behalf of the Client in the winemaking process at landed cost plus taxes, together with a 10% margin for arranging such items:

The Client will pay AHFWC for preparation and provision of bulk wine samples.

If the Client does not accept the remuneration increases the Client may within fourteen days after receipt of notification of the remuneration increases elect to terminate this contract in accordance with Clause 1.2.

AHFWC may issue invoices to the Client for the remuneration in accordance with Schedule 1.

The Client may pay all invoices in accordance with Schedule 1.

AHFWC will not be obliged to release the Wine, the Base Products or any other property of the Client in its possession until all amounts due, payable and accruing under this Agreement are paid in full.

If the Client does not pay to AHFWC all amounts due under this Agreement within six months of the date of the invoice then AHFWC will be entitled to sell the Base Products and apply the proceeds of sale to all amounts owing by the Client to AHFWC under this Agreement (including all costs incurred by AHFWC in selling the Base Products).

Nothing in this Agreement shall constitute the relationship of partnership or employer and employee between the parties hereto and it is the express intention of the parties that any such relationships are denied.

Any notice, report or other communication under this Agreement may be served:

The failure, delay or omission of a party to exercise any power or right conferred upon it will not operate as a waiver of the power or right, nor will any single exercise of any such power or right preclude any other or future exercise of the of the power, or the exercise of any other or right under this Agreement.

If, by reason of fact, circumstances, matter or thing beyond the reasonable control of AHFWC or the Client, either is unable to perform in whole or in part any obligation under this Agreement such party shall be relieved of that obligation under this Agreement to the extent and for the period that it is so unable to perform and shall not be liable to the other party to this Agreement in respect of such inability.

The guarantee and indemnity shall not prejudicially affect or be prejudicially affected by any other security or guarantee or indemnity at any time held by AHFWC but such security shall be deemed to be collateral and the Guarantor shall not as against AHFWC in any way claim the benefit or seek the transfer of any security or any part thereof;

Any dispute which arises out of or relates to this Agreement its meaning, its performance, or as to any other matter or thing arising in relation to it, the same may be referred by either party to any independent wine industry expert nominated at the request of such party by the Chairman of the Australian Wine and Brandy Corporation as having the skills and experience appropriate for the proper consideration of the matter requiring determination.

The expert will hear all competing points of view in relation to any such dispute or other question and will deliver to the parties within one (1) month after hearing the parties, a statement of the expert's determination which (in the absence of manifest error) is to be conclusive and binding on the parties as a final determination of the particular matter.

In making such a determination the expert will be acting as an expert and not as an arbitrator.

The expert's fees are to be borne equally by the parties unless the expert will otherwise decide.

monthly basis for the first two (2) reports and thereafter on a six (6) monthly basis, covering the level of skill and knowledge of the candidate, such that the degree and complexity of work and responsibilities can be analysed.

The Vendor must pay the broker commission, plus costs outlined in Clause 4.2 below, on the sale price.

The Broker may deduct and retain the commission and costs from the sale proceeds or deposit.

The Vendor must pay to the Broker Commission at % of the final Contract price of the Boat plus GST.

Is the Vendor aware of any problems such as Osmosis, Structural or Mechanical that may be revealed during a survey;

In consideration for providing the Service, the Customer will pay the Price for the Services to the Service Provider in accordance with this clause 3;

The Customer shall be liable to insure (for defined events including fire, theft and accidental damage and other deterioration and/or inherent loss of any kind) the Goods both in transit, while on deposit with the Service Provider and upon their delivery and the Service Provider shall not be liable for any loss or damage to the same by the Customer's failure to do so;

The parties acknowledge that despite the provision of Services by the Service Provider under this Agreement, title and risk in respect of the Goods shall remain with the Customer at all times despite the possession of the Goods by the Service Provider.

At no time will the Service Provider assume any risk or liability in respect of the Goods.

The Service Provider must, when requested by the Customer, deliver or arrange for delivery of the Goods to the Customer or in accordance with the directions of the Customer, at the cost of the Customer.

Despite clause 7(a), delivery will be deemed to have occurred for the purposes of clause 7(b), where the Service Provider voluntarily changes the nature of its possession of the particular Goods such that those Goods are held in its capacity as Merchant (for the purposes of the Code) for the purpose of re-sale by the Service Provider.

If a party ("the Supplier") is obliged pursuant to the GST Law to pay an amount of GST in respect of a Taxable Supply made by the Supplier to another party ("the Recipient") pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement, the Recipient shall pay the Supplier on demand that amount of GST upon production of a valid Tax Invoice by the Supplier in addition to the moneys otherwise payable by the Recipient to the Supplier on account of that Taxable Supply.

The Customer indemnifies and will hold the Service Provider indemnified from and against all losses, liabilities, damages, claims, proceedings, demands, costs and expenses however arising that the Service Provider or its employees, agents or contractors, suffer, sustain or incur as a result of or in connection with any breach of the Customer of this Agreement or arising from any act, default or negligence of the Customer.

The Customer must pay to the Service Provider on demand any amount payable under the indemnity contained in this clause 9.

Any notice or other communication to or by any party shall be in writing, in English, signed and addressed to the address of the recipient shown in the Reference Schedule.

Any communication shall be deemed duly given or made when actually personally served on a party or in the case of:

If delivery is not made before 5.00pm on a Business Day, it shall be deemed to be received on the next Business Day in that place;

The Agreement may be terminated in writing by the parties.

Either party may terminate this Agreement by written notice if the other party breaches a material term of this Agreement and has not remedied the breach within 30 days after the non-defaulting party gives written notice of the breach and the non-defaulting party's requirement for remedy of the breach.

The terms of this Agreement will apply when you return a signed copy of this Agreement to us, or accept one of our employees on a temporary basis, after receiving a copy of this Agreement.

If we are reasonably satisfied that you have breached clause 7 below and this results in one or more of our employees sustaining an injury, we will be entitled to increase our rates to reflect any corresponding increase in our workers' compensation premiums.

We will send invoices regularly to you, and such invoices are to be paid by you within seven (7) days of their date.

days of their date, you will be liable to pay us interest on the amounts contained in those invoices, calculated at the rate of 2% per annum above the official interest rate as set from time to time by the Reserve Bank of Australia.

If payment is not received by VIP Personnel within the prescribed time, you will incur all associated costs in recovering the monies, including but not limited to debt collection agency fees and commission, and legal fees.

Either party may terminate this Agreement by giving two weeks notice to the other party.

If you terminate this Agreement in accordance with clause 5.1, you will still be liable to pay to us all outstanding charges (including any outstanding disbursements which you may have previously approved) and any Subsequent Placement Fees, in accordance with clause 8.2 below.

You may also terminate an Assignment, at your sole discretion, immediately, if at any time the employee becomes:

Not to communicate anything to the employee indicating that their Assignment will be cancelled (or words to that effect); and

That you will contact us if you wish to significantly change the job function or system of work that applies to our employees on an Assignment and to comply with our reasonable requests to ensure the workplace health and safety of our employees.

That if any one of our employees sustains an injury which is compensable under any law relating to workers' compensation or occupational health and safety, you will assist, where practicable, with the rehabilitation of our employee by way of providing our employee, through us, with suitable work (including light duties) once our employee is able to return to work.

To report to us in relation to any performance issues in relation to our employees in a written format, so that we may counsel the employees correctly if necessary.

Where any Act of Parliament implies in this Agreement any term and such a term voids or prohibits provisions in an agreement excluding, restricting or modifying the application of the provisions of that Act; or any liability for a breach of a condition or warranty implied by the provisions of any Act; such a term shall be deemed to be included in this Agreement.

If the Services require the Contractor to create or produce data, information, materials or anything which may be subject to copyright or which constitute intellectual property of whatsoever nature ("Contract Materials") those Contract Materials are owned by the University as and when they are created or produced.

The Contractor agrees to take out and maintain Public Liability Insurance to cover the performance of its obligations under this agreement to the amount of ten million dollars ($10,000,000) and must provide written proof of maintenance of such insurance to the University on request.

The Contractor agrees to take out and maintain Professional Indemnity Insurance to cover the performance of its obligations under this agreement to the amount of five million dollars ($5,000,000) and must provide written proof of maintenance of such insurance to the University on request.

A party claiming that a dispute has arisen under this Agreement (Dispute) must notify the other party giving written details of the Dispute.

Any Dispute which cannot be settled under clause 12.1 within a reasonable time must be referred for determination by a person appointed for that purpose by the Parties and failing Agreement, appointed by the President of the Institute of Arbitrators and Mediators Australia (Victorian Division).

(b) of the Act, a SAAP National Research Program will be developed during SAAP V in consultation with all parties.

2.3 and 8.2.4 will be deducted from the Commonwealth funding available in the Year after the conduct, which triggers the sanction.

4.2 and 4.3 will not apply where the Applicant is an individual hiring the Facilities for domestic purposes.

If any provision of these Terms of Service is found to be invalid by any court having competent jurisdiction, the invalidity of such a provision will not affect the validity of the remaining provisions of these Terms of Service.

If a party believes it can demonstrate that the other party is in significant breach of this Agreement, the first party may give written notice requesting rectification;

The Board of the Regional Library shall consist of the following members-

A Council may appoint a member of council staff to act as deputy in place of its appointed staff member.

A member and deputy shall hold office until the term of his/her appointment

A Council may remove from office its appointed member or deputy.

A Council must fill a vacancy in its members as soon as possible and notify the

The Board shall hold an ordinary meeting at least once every three months.

If a special meeting is called, it must be called by the Chief Executive Officer on

The Board shall elect a member to be the Chairperson of the Board and they shall hold office for twelve months, unless they go out of office earlier in accordance with clause 3.4 of this Agreement.

The Chairperson shall preside at a meeting of the Board.

In the absence of the Chairperson from a Board meeting, the remaining members of the Board may elect one of their number to preside at that meeting.

The Board shall appoint a Chief Executive Officer of the Regional Library.

The Chief Executive Officer shall maintain a register of the assets provided

The Chief Executive Officer shall maintain a register of the assets owned by the

A Council must, unless otherwise agreed by Councils, give twelve months

The Regional Library shall, unless otherwise agreed by Councils, be

Each Council shall, unless otherwise agreed by Councils, be responsible for

The Regional Library shall, unless otherwise agreed by Councils and subject to

The Chief Executive Officer shall by 30 June each year provide each Council

The Chief Executive Officer shall by 30 June each year prepare and provide

The Strategic Resource Plan shall include a program for the delivery of services

The Regional Library must adopt a Library Plan and a Strategic Resource Plan

The Chief Executive Officer shall by June 1 each year provide each Council

The proposed annual Budget shall include -

The Council must agree on a funding formula for the purpose of making annual

Each Council's financial contribution to the Regional Library shall be paid in

The first installment shall be the same amount paid by the Council in the

Al other Council contributions under clause 9.1 shall be paid within one month

In addition to the contributions payable under this clause, a Council shall be

Interest shall be paid on any amount payable under clause 9 which is not received by the Chief Executive Officer within 14 days of the due date at the rate fixed by the Governor in Council for the purposes of section 172 of the Act and calculated monthly from the date the amount became due until it is received by the Chief Executive Officer.

must, unless otherwise

each Council shall be entitled to a portion of the Regional Library's

The Deed takes effect on and from the Commencement Date and, unless terminated in accordance with the Deed, will continue in force until the Licensee complies with the conditions set out in clause 8.2.

The Licensee must pay the administration fee of $77 to the Survey Contract Manager prior to the Dataset being provided.

The administration fee is GST inclusive for overseas based Licensees and the Survey Contract Manager will provide a tax invoice as soon as reasonably practicable.

The Dataset must only be used for the purposes of undertaking the following research project:

Unless using the Dataset through a secure server, the Licensee may only use the Dataset on the Organisation's premises, unless they have prior written approval from FaHCSIA.

The Licensee may modify the Dataset in order to undertake data analysis (e.g.

The Licensee may copy/reproduce the Dataset for the permitted purpose, but may not copy/reproduce the Dataset for any other reason (e.g.

The Licensee must not:

The Licensee must abide by the provisions set out in the latest version of the Manual.

Subject to clause 4.1 FaHCSIA will use its best endeavours to arrange the provision of the Dataset to the Licensee as soon as possible after the date of signature of this Deed.

FaHCSIA must notify the Licensee immediately in writing of any delay in the arrangement of the provision of the Dataset in accordance with clause 7.1 and in this event the parties will agree on a revised delivery date and appropriate changes to other timing obligations included in the Deed.

The Licensee must comply at all times with any security requirements notified by FaHCSIA and with the following security requirements in relation to the Datasets:

FaHCSIA will provide Authorised Users, through the Survey Management Contractors, with technical assistance to the Licensee in use of the Dataset in accordance with this Deed.

The Licensee may retain a copy of the Confidential Information if, and only to the extent to which and for the purpose for which, the Licensee is required by law to do so but subject to compliance with clause 11.1.

This clause 10 will survive the expiration or termination of this Deed.

The Licensee may disclose any Confidential Information which the Licensee is required by law to disclose, but only if the extent and the manner of the disclosure is strictly limited to what is required by law.

Except where specified under a separate agreement, the Commonwealth will not own the Intellectual Property rights in any Research Material created using the Dataset to the extent the Research Material does not include the Unit Record Data.

The Licensee must within 30 days provide to the Commonwealth, or arrange for the provision of, a copy or a computer link to an electronic copy of any final Research Material produced by the Licensee using the Datasets.

Where the Licensee is not the owner of the Intellectual Property of the Research Material, the Licensee warrants that he or she will be able to provide a sub-licence from a third party for the Research Material on the same terms as the Licensee grants to FaHCSIA under clause 12.5.

If the Commonwealth wishes to make any part of the Research Material publicly available, the Commonwealth will first obtain the written consent of the owner of the Intellectual Property.

This clause 12 will survive the expiration or termination of the Deed.

The Licensee agrees that any of the material produced by the Licensee and made publicly available will include the acknowledgment included in the latest version of the Manual or any variation of the acknowledgement approved in writing by FaHCSIA in any reports and publications.

The Licensee's obligations in this clause 14 are in addition to, and do not restrict, any obligations it may have under:

This clause 14 will survive the expiration or termination of this Deed.

The Licensee warrants that it will not permit any situation to arise or engage in any activity that may result in a conflict of interest with the Licensee's receipt of Confidential Information.

The Licensee's liability to indemnify FaHCSIA under clause 17.1 will be reduced proportionately to the extent that any negligent act or omission of FaHCSIA contributed to the relevant liability, loss or damage, or loss or expense.

This clause 17 will survive the expiration or termination of this Deed.

This Deed will be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the Australian Capital Territory (Australia) and the Licensee agrees to submit to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of the courts of the Australian Capital Territory in respect of all matters arising under, or in relation to, this Deed.

FaHCSIA and the Licensee will attempt in good faith to resolve through negotiation any disputes, claim or controversy arising out of or relating to this agreement.

This Deed may be terminated by either Party providing at least 14 day's prior notice in writing unless terminated by FaHCSIA in accordance with clause 8.2.

Subject to clause 8.2, FaHCSIA may terminate this Deed by notice in writing, with effect from the date in the notice, if the Licensee fails to remedy a breach of the Deed within 30 days of being given notice by FaHCSIA requiring the breach to be remedied.

A notice, consent, information, application or request that must or may be given or made to a party under the Deed is only given or made if it is in writing and:

Except as expressly permitted by the Deed, the Licensee must not assign any of their rights under this Deed without the prior written consent of FaHCSIA.

Each party will bear its own costs in relation to this Deed, including the exercise of rights and performance of obligations specified in the Deed.

If a clause or part of a clause of the Deed can be read in a way that makes it illegal, unenforceable or invalid, but can also be read in a way that makes it legal, enforceable and valid, it must be read in the latter way.

If the day on or by which something is required to be done or may be done is not a Business Day, that thing must be done on or by the next Business Day.

No variation of the Deed will be of any force or effect unless it is in writing and signed by the parties to the Deed.

is required for the Commercialisation of the Services it must be made available on commercial terms to be negotiated in good faith by the Parties.

Any Dispute which cannot be settled under clause 11.1 within a reasonable time must be referred for determination by a person appointed for that purpose by the Parties and failing Agreement, appointed by the President of the Institute of Arbitrators and Mediators Australia (Victorian Division).

If GST is payable on a Taxable Supply made by AEMO to an Auction Participant, the amount payable for that Taxable Supply will be the amount expressed in this Agreement plus GST.

If an amount payable under this Agreement is calculated by reference to or relates to price, value, sales, revenue or a similar amount (Revenue), the Revenue shall be exclusive of GST.

If AEMO becomes liable to pay GST on a Taxable Supply to the Auction Participant prior to the time that it is entitled to receive in full the consideration for that Taxable Supply, the Auction Participant will, at the request of AEMO, pay to AEMO an amount equal to the GST payable on the Taxable Supply at least 7 days before the time that AEMO is liable to pay the GST.

8.2 of the Rules will apply to any dispute arising in relation to this Agreement, a SRDA or otherwise in relation to any auction.

If the Auction Participant commits a material breach of this Agreement that does not relate to a particular SRDA, and fails to remedy that breach within 3 business days after being required in writing to do so, AEMO may terminate this Agreement and any or all of the SRDAs between AEMO and the Auction Participant by further notice to the Auction Participant.

When the Referrer provides Information to any person the Referrer must not:

The Referrer must not do or say anything that will or is likely to damage or diminish the Principal's business reputation or brand names.

The Principal will set the Bond fees payable by the Applicant.

Any product, material or document that has been developed or created for the purpose of this Agreement by the Principal shall be owned by the Principal and, except for the purpose of this Agreement, shall not be used by the Referrer (either solely or in conjunction with a third party) without the prior written consent of the Principal.

The Referrer must comply with the obligations set out in Schedule Item 2 - Referrer's Obligations.

The Referrer will permit the Principal to conduct audits of its activity under this Agreement and will provide the Principal with access to all relevant personnel, files, correspondence, promotional material and other documents of any kind for this purpose upon request.

The Referrer acknowledges that all documents about the Bonds of the Principal supplied by the Principal remain the property of the Principal and must be returned to the Principal on request.

The Principal must comply with the obligations set out in Schedule Item 3 - Principal's Obligations.

The Referrer warrants that it has fully disclosed to the Principal all material information and circumstances known to it which would be likely to affect the Principal's decision to enter into this Agreement.

The Referrer will indemnify the Principal for any loss or damage sustained by the Principal as a result of any act or omission by the Referrer or its agents, employees or Clients, whether that act or omission constitutes a breach of this Agreement or not.

During the term of this Agreement, the Referrer must maintain a contract of professional indemnity insurance for the benefit of the Referrer and the Principal for the amount of not less than $2,000,000 (two million dollars) and with an excess of not more than $10,000 for not less than seven (7) years after this agreement is terminated and pay all costs and premiums in respect of that contract of insurance.

Except as required by law or by a regulatory authority, the Referrer must not divulge, allow to be divulged or make use of any Confidential Information other than for the purposes of this Agreement.

The Referrer may not assign, charge or otherwise deal with its rights and obligations under this Agreement in any way without the prior written consent of the Principal.

The parties must attempt in good faith to resolve any dispute, by negotiation, between them in connection with this Agreement.

If any dispute cannot be resolved by negotiation between the parties within 10 days or such further period as the parties agree is appropriate, then within the following 10 days the parties must seek to agree on the procedural rules and a timetable for resolving the dispute through mediation by a mediator agreed upon by the parties, or if the parties cannot agree, a mediator appointed by the Australian Commercial Disputes Centre or any body which replaces it.

A party may not commence court proceedings or arbitration (other than an urgent interlocutory application) relating to any dispute arising from this Agreement unless that party has complied with sub-clauses 6.1 and 6.2.

This Agreement will commence on the date specified in Item 4 - Commencement Date of the Schedule and will continue until terminated in accordance with the following clauses.

The Principal may suspend the authority granted to the Referrer under this Agreement immediately if the Referrer:

The suspension may operate until the breaches are remedied.

This Agreement may be terminated:

Either party may terminate this Agreement with immediate effect if:

The Referrer must notify the Principal immediately if any event occurs which would entitle the Principal to terminate this Agreement or suspend the authorities conferred by this Agreement.

shall survive the termination or expiry of this Agreement.

Any notice given under this Agreement must be in writing and, if sent to the last known address or facsimile number of the other party, is deemed to be received:

Each of the parties will give notice to the other of any change of address, telephone and facsimile numbers, email address and the like as soon as practicable.

The Principal may give or withhold an approval or consent to be given under this Agreement in its absolute discretion.

Any waiver by the Principal of any one breach or default by the Referrer will not constitute a waiver of any other breach or default.

No variation of the terms of this Agreement will be of any force or effect unless it is in writing and signed by the parties.

If any provision of this Agreement is found to be void, voidable, illegal or otherwise unenforceable, the parties will amend that provision in a manner which reasonably achieves the intention of the parties or, at the discretion of the Principal, that provision may be severed from this Agreement and the remaining provisions of the Agreement will remain in full force and effect.

This Agreement can be executed by each party executing this document or an identical document.

The Principal's codes of practice, systems, policies and procedures as may be notified from time to time;

Clause 2.2 shall in no way affect rights and obligations under this agreement being granted to, warranties (such as in clause 4) given by, or obligations required to be exercised by, each of Person A, Person B and Person C in the plural.

The agreement commences on the date of execution and unless terminated earlier in accordance with clause 8 (whether as between all parties or between U@MQ and one or more parties), continues until 31 December of the same year, upon which date (unless terminated earlier), it shall terminate automatically.

The parties may renew the term of this agreement for a further period by agreement in writing.

Provide Xyz the opportunity to take part in O-week and any other official event where Student Groups may promote themselves;

Person A, Person B and Person C agree that any monies received from Registered Participants of Xyz, or by any other person (including U@MQ or Macquarie University) in relation to the operations of Xyz, shall be deposited into the "U@MQ Xyzs Account" to be established on execution of this agreement by U@MQ.

Person A, Person B and Person C agree that any monies previously held by Xyz formed and bound by previous rules are required to transfer any monies held over from said previous Xyz into the "U@MQ Xyzs Account" as referred to in clause 7.1 within ten Business Days on the execution of this agreement and that all other existing bank accounts will be henceforth closed.

Person A, Person B and Person C agree that Xyz shall be deemed inactive after any continuous six month period in which Xyz does not hold any meetings or other activity.

Person A, Person B and Person C may together terminate this agreement at any time by:

Any of Person A, Person B or Person C may terminate this agreement (as between that party and U@MQ only) by giving notice in writing to U@MQ at any time.

In the case of any notices required to be given by all of Person A, Person B and Person C, or by U@MQ to each of Person A, Person B and Person C, each notice must be given separately (from or to each person) and in a manner compliant with the requirements of clauses 9.1 and 9.2.

This agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts.

This agreement may only be varied by agreement in writing between all parties to this agreement as at the time of the variation.

The indemnity provided by the Developer under this clause 3 will not exceed $20 million per event and in the aggregate.

The Developer's liability to indemnify Telstra under this clause 3 shall be reduced proportionately to the extent that any act or omission of Telstra contributed to the liability, loss, damage, costs or expenses.

This Agreement shall commence on the [Insert Date] [the Start Date] and shall end on 30 November 2009 [the End Date] unless extended, varied or terminated in accordance with clauses 15 [Default] and 17 [Variation].

This Services Agreement shall supersede any previous Services Agreement as set out in Clause 16.1 [Entire agreement and status].

Except as provided for in clause 15 [Default], either party may terminate this Agreement by providing the other party with three (3) months notice in writing.

No compensation shall be payable by either party to the other where the Agreement is terminated in accordance with Part A(b)(4) above.

All service delivery areas through which services are to be provided under this Agreement must be listed and otherwise described in Attachment '2'.

The contractor may only provide services, for the purpose of this Agreement, in the service delivery area/s listed in Attachment '2'.

For the purposes of this Agreement, the contractor must not provide services in any other service delivery area/s to that listed in Attachment '2'.

In addition to clause 17.2, the contractor must not assign or transfer any of its legal rights and obligations under this Agreement in relation to any site without prior consent in writing from DVA which may or may not be withheld.

On receipt of written consent from DVA to either assign or transfer any of its legal rights and obligations under this Agreement, the contractor must continue to provide services consistent with this Agreement up to the date of assignment or transfer unless otherwise directed by DVA.

The contractor must notify DVA of any changes to its capacity to deliver any of the services outlined in the Agreement, within fourteen (14) working days of any such change.

The Contractor will be the supplier under this Agreement.

Consistent with section 5 Assessment and Coordination in the Guidelines (Attachment '1'), the contractor shall ensure that all personnel must:

The contractor may subcontract all or part of the VHC services delivered under this Agreement.

The following information must be provided to DVA by the contractor if the contractor proposes to use any subcontractors to provide all or any part of the services under this Agreement that are a company, partnership, trust, statutory body or other legal entity other than an individual.

The contractor must provide any additional information in relation to any subcontracting agreement or other arrangement on request from DVA.

For the purposes of this Agreement, the contractor shall ensure that all services provided under any subcontracting agreement or other arrangement are delivered by persons who have the appropriate qualifications and experience as set out in Part B[d] of this Agreement.

The contractor agrees that it shall not be discharged from any of its obligations or liabilities arising under this Agreement on entering into any subcontract agreement or other arrangement for all or any parts of the services.

The Contractor will perform the tasks outlined in this Part D(a) in the VHC region/s listed in Attachment '2' and consistent with Part B(b) of this Agreement.

The Contractor will undertake regional assessment and coordination functions for the DVA Veterans' Home Care Program.

The Contractor will perform the tasks in accordance with this Agreement, including the Guidelines (Attachment '1') and all other Attachments.

Consistent with Part J(b)(2), the Guidelines (Attachment '1') may be amended from time to time by DVA.

In addition to any other relevant terms and conditions of this Agreement, the contractor agrees that DVA may, at its sole discretion, transfer an Entitled Person to another contractor if DVA considers that the Entitled Person's health and welfare is at risk or on any other reasonable grounds.

On receiving notification from DVA consistent with Part D(a)(5) above, the contractor shall act in accordance with any reasonable direction from DVA, and shall do all things necessary to ensure a smooth and well-ordered transfer.

[Services and timing], the Contractor will provide DVA with the following:

DVA shall monitor the performance of the contractor under this Agreement (particularly in relation to the tasks described in Part D(a) [The services] and the deliverables required under Part D(b) [The deliverables]) and determine in its absolute discretion whether such performance has been satisfactory.

[Communication] The parties will communicate via telephone, in writing or meet on a regular basis (as agreed by the parties but at least every six months) to discuss the progress of the Agreement including ways to improve delivery of the services.

Fees for each Entitled Person Client will be adjusted on 1 January annually in line with the Health and Community Care Sector Wage Cost Index.

No costs or disbursements of the contractor will be reimbursed.

The Contractor will be paid at least monthly based on the number of Entitled Persons with assessments and approvals completed and registered in the Department's VHC system.

per Entitled Person Client per annum will be paid following the initial client assessment and registration of a complete approval in the Department's VHC system.

[Implementation] DVA will take reasonable steps to ensure the Contractor has access to all training material, guidelines and administrative procedures necessary to implement and complete the Services.

[Safety] The contractor will comply with DVA policy and procedures regarding occupational health and safety.

[Security] If the contractor or its personnel will have access to Security Classified Information, the contractor agrees to store, handle and process such information in accordance with the minimum security standards set out in the specified sections of the DVA Protective Security Manual, which will be provided to the contractor where required.

[APS Values] The contractor agrees to conduct all its activities under this Agreement in a manner consistent with the Australian Public Service (APS) Values (Public Service Act 1999, s. 10) which may be accessed online at

In particular, the parties will act in good faith to endeavour to agree within 10 days (or a period agreed between them in writing, depending on the issue in dispute) about:

DVA will take reasonable steps to ensure that the Contractor has access to all DVA Material necessary and relevant in the performance of the Services, including access to the DVA's system databases as appropriate.

The contractor must retain and securely store the care documentation for an Entitled Person for the period of the contract in accordance with the Privacy Act 1988.

Care documentation containing veteran personal information must be destroyed in accordance with the Privacy Act 1988 at the termination of the contract or when no longer required by the contractor.

The contractor must maintain full levels of insurance cover relevant to the provision of VHC services to properly protect its and DVA's interests for the services.

Specifically, the contractor warrants that in the performance of the services, it has, and will maintain:

The contractor further warrants that any subcontractor used in the performance of the services has, and will maintain, insurance at the levels consistent with I(a)(2).

DVA may, at its absolute discretion, obtain Services similar to those offered by the Contractor from third parties, and nothing in this Agreement shall give rise to any right of the Contractor to exclusively provide Services of the kind described in Part D(a) [What Services are needed - and when?].

With regard to the Guidelines (Attachment '1'), the parties agree that the Guidelines (Attachment '1') may be amended from time to time by DVA.

[Price Review] The parties may agree to consult regarding any price review.

[Access] and 8.5 [Delegate to be involved], "Accountability Personnel" means an individual performing statutory or Parliamentary functions, including as authorised by the Auditor-General, the Ombudsman, the National Archives of Australia, the Privacy Commissioner, Parliament, or a Parliamentary Committee, and the contractor acknowledges that any of these may name the contractor in a public report or comment lawfully on this Agreement.

[Government parties] and references to DVA will then include that separate entity (and its personnel).

[Privacy applies] The contractor is made aware of section 95B of the Privacy Act 1988 (the Privacy Act) and that, in the performance of this Agreement, the contractor, its personnel or subcontractors will collect, store, update, use or disclose 'personal information' in accordance with the Information Privacy

[Interpretation], may be on any conditions).

[Assignment] The contractor agrees that the title to any Intellectual Property in, or in relation to, Material (tangible and intangible) produced at the request of DVA and funded by DVA under this Agreement, with the exception of any Material listed in Part H(a)(1), shall vest exclusively, upon delivery or on the expiration of this Agreement, in the Commonwealth.

[Warranty] The contractor warrants that it is entitled, or will be entitled at relevant times, to assign or license relevant Intellectual Property Rights under this clause 11.4.

[Survival] This clause shall survive the expiration or termination of this Agreement.

[DVA may reduce or cancel services] DVA reserves the right to reduce the scope of (including the right to reduce any number of sites from which the contractor delivers any or part of the services), or cancel this Agreement, at any time including where there is a significant change in Commonwealth policy or where there is a change in control or ownership of the contractor, by written notice stating any end date(s).

[What the contractor must do in response to notice] Upon being given notice under clause 14.1 [Reduction or cancellation], the contractor agrees to:

[Rectification], the other party may, by written notice stating any end date(s), terminate:

2.1 and I am aware that any relevant documents are beyond my custody or control, then I will provide full details of the whereabouts those documents, and the identity of the person with custody or control of those documents.

The Governments will develop by 30 July 1996 boundaries of forest regions for the purposes of completing Regional Forest Agreements in NSW.

17.1 and consistent with the NFPS, apply to New South Wales the same standards with respect to forest management and environmental and other assessments as have been or will be applied to other States.

any area may be added to, or removed from, the Agreement Area defined in Clause 1; and

shall also apply to a review under Clause 20.

The Owner will not sell, transfer, dispose of, assign, mortgage or otherwise part with possession of the subject land or any part of it without first disclosing to its successors the existence and nature of this Agreement.

The Owner will do all that is necessary to enable the Responsible Authority to make an application to the Registrar of Titles to make a recording of this Agreement on the Certificate of Title to the subject land in accordance with Section 181 of the Act, including the signing of any further agreement, acknowledgment or other document.

The Owner shall immediately on demand pay the reasonable legal costs and fees incurred and incidental to the preparation and execution of this Agreement and the registration hereof pursuant to Section 181 of the Act, together with all costs of enforcing this Agreement if deemed necessary by the Responsible Authority.

That until such time as this Agreement is registered on the title to the subject land, the Owner shall ensure that successors in title will give effect to this Agreement, and do all acts and sign all documents which will require those successors to give effect to this Agreement, including executing a deed agreeing to be bound by the terms of this Agreement.

The Owner agrees to indemnify and keep indemnified the Responsible Authority from and against all costs, expenses, losses or damages that it may sustain, incur, suffer or be or become liable for or in respect of any suit, action, proceeding, judgment or claim brought by any person arising from or referable to this Agreement and/or any non-compliance with this Agreement.

(f) and (g) above can be obtained from the PYBO website http://www.pluckyourbrainsout.com.au .

The Producer acknowledges that some PYBO assignees or licensees may need to edit, alter or reproduce the Film and the Producer consents to these actions by PYBO or any assignees or licensees of PYBO, in any manner or context, in perpetuity throughout the world.

The Donee must provide copies of the following to Our Community Foundation:

Our Community Foundation may request further information or an interview or site visit prior to accepting the appointment as an agent under this agreement.

Our Community Foundation may reasonably request amendments, additions, deletions or redrafting of the Donee Information.

the Donee will appoint a dispute officer and supply the contact details to Our Community Foundation, who will be given the details of the appointed Our Community Foundation dispute officer.

Notification of a change of dispute officer by either party must be provided to the other party within 5 working days.

Any complaint from the public that concerns the Donee will be brought to the Donee's dispute officer's attention in writing;

If any dispute arises out of or in connection with this Agreement ('Dispute'), Our Community Foundation or the Donee must not commence any court or arbitration proceedings unless they have complied with this clause except where a party seeks urgent interlocutory relief;

to whom it applies and agree that they will not pursue any extra claims during the term of this Agreement, whether or not the claims deal with the subject matter contained in this Agreement.

independent psychiatrists (the AMA will be consulted re the choice of these Medical Practitioners) the VMO becomes of unsound mind;

Subject to 15.3.6, parental leave is to be available to only one parent at a time, in a single unbroken period, except that both parents may simultaneously take:

When the employee gives notice under 15.3.1(a) the employee must also provide a statutory declaration stating particulars of any period of paternity leave sought or taken by her spouse and that for the period of maternity leave she will not engage in any conduct inconsistent with her contract of employment.

An employee will not be in breach of this clause if failure to give the stipulated notice is occasioned by confinement occurring earlier than the presumed date.

Subject to 15.2.1 and unless agreed otherwise between the employer and employee, an employee may commence parental leave at any time within six weeks immediately prior to the expected date of birth.

Where an employee continues to work within the six week period immediately prior to the expected date of birth, or where the employee elects to return to work within six weeks after the birth of the child, an employer may require the employee to provide a medical certificate stating that she is fit to work on her normal duties.

Where an employee is suffering from an illness not related to the direct consequences of the confinement, an employee may take any paid sick leave to which she is entitled in lieu of, or in addition to, maternity leave.

Where an employee not then on maternity leave suffers illness related to her pregnancy, she may take any paid sick leave to which she is then entitled and such further unpaid maternity leave as a registered medical practitioner certifies as necessary before her return to work.

Where leave is granted under 15.3.4, during the period of leave and on the provision of four weeks' written notice, an employee may return to work at any time as agreed between the employer and the employee

The employee will not be in breach of 15.4.1 if the failure to give the required period of notice is because of the birth occurring earlier than expected, the death of the mother of the child, or other compelling circumstances.

Before commencing adoption leave, an employee will provide the employer with a statutory declaration stating:

An employer may require an employee to provide confirmation from the appropriate government authority of the placement.

Where the placement of child for adoption with an employee does not proceed or continue, the employee will notify the employer immediately and the employer will nominate a time not exceeding four weeks from receipt of notification for the employee's return to work.

An employee will not be in breach of this clause as a consequence of failure to give the stipulated periods of notice if such failure results from a requirement of an adoption agency to accept earlier or later placement of a child, the death of a spouse, or other compelling circumstances.

If the transfer to a safe job is not practicable, the employee may elect, or the employer may require the employee to commence parental leave for such period as is certified necessary by a registered medical practitioner.

An employee will be entitled to the position which they held immediately before proceeding on parental leave.

Where such position no longer exists but there are other positions available which the employee is qualified for and is capable of performing, the employee will be entitled to a position as nearly comparable in status and pay to that of their former position.

Before an employer engages a replacement employee the employer must inform that person of the temporary nature of the employment and of the rights of the employee who is being replaced.

years of continuous service with Eastern Health Service based on the ordinary in-hours that would have been worked during such absence.

years shall not commence to run until the date of the Practitioner's return to duty following sabbatical leave, provided that where, by mutual agreement, a Practitioner has delayed the taking of sabbatical leave, that period of service between the end of the qualifying period and the taking of such leave shall be included as part of a subsequent qualifying period.

hereof, a Practitioner after the completion of fifteen (15) years' continuous service will be entitled to leave of absence on full remuneration as in the said sub-clause (b)

hereof, who resigns or retires or whose appointment expires and who has not received long service leave due to him/her under this clause, will be entitled to payment from the hospital equivalent to the remuneration for the period of leave to which the Practitioner would have been entitled under sub-clause (b) (i) hereof, plus a pro rata amount for all services in excess of fifteen (15) years, provided that such resignation or retirement is not due to serious misconduct.

(a) or sub-clause (c) the hospital will pay to the personal representative of the deceased practitioner the amount that Practitioner would have been entitled to receive had he/she retired immediately prior to the date of his/her death.

hereof, will be entitled to time off in lieu without loss of pay by mutual agreement, or equivalent hours will be added to the Practitioner's annual leave.

A practitioner shall be entitled to four weeks annual leave without deduction of pay on completion of each year of service in the hospital.

weeks' notice of intention to take annual leave must be given to the relevant Clinical Services Administration by the Practitioner.

All annual leave will be taken within the term of the employment contract period unless agreed otherwise by Eastern Health Service and the Practitioner.

working weeks paid conference leave per annum which can be cumulative up to two (2) years, in order for the practitioner to attend conference or conferences approved by Eastern Health.

identifying Visitors that might have an interest in Ezybonds Services, (ii) introducing Ezybonds Services to such Visitors, (iii) helping to develop solicitation materials for such Visitors and (iv) performing the services of a Reseller Member which are set forth in Exhibit "A" hereto.

Reseller Member will take primary responsibility for supplying Visitors with any Ezybonds Services materials as may be requested or required by Visitors.

Reseller Member may be assisted by third Persons in performing its services pursuant to this Agreement; provided that each such Person executes a written confidentiality agreement with Ezybonds in form approved by Ezybonds and agrees to abide by the limitations set for Reseller Members in this Agreement.

Ezybonds reserves the right, in its sole and unfettered discretion, to change its Ezybonds Services and shall notify Reseller Member as to any such changes.

As full and complete compensation to Reseller Member for all of Reseller Member's efforts on Ezybonds behalf, Ezybonds will pay Reseller Member the Commissions set forth on the Debit Card Fee Schedule.

it has the requisite corporate power and authority to execute, deliver and enter into, and perform its obligations under this Agreement; (ii) it has taken or caused to be taken all necessary corporate action to authorize the execution, delivery, and performance of this Agreement; (iii) this Agreement constitutes a valid and binding obligation enforceable in accordance with its terms; (iv) its signatories hereto have full authority to sign on its behalf; and (v) neither the execution nor performance hereof by such party violates or will violate any agreement, understanding, law, regulation, court order or other legally binding document or action.

is proprietary to Ezybonds, (ii) shall remain the sole property of Ezybonds and (iii) Reseller Member shall have no ownership interest therein.

No right of the Principal hereunder shall be deemed to be waived except if such waiver is in writing signed by the Principal.

A waiver by a party hereto will not prejudice the rights of that party in respect of any subsequent breach of these conditions by the other party.

Any failure by a party to enforce any provision of these conditions or any forbearance delay or indulgence granted by a party to the other shall not be construed as a waiver of the first mentioned party's rights under these conditions.

Subject to clause 27 hereof the Consultant shall treat as confidential all information disclosed to the Consultant, made known to the Consultant or developed by the Consultant during the course of or for the purposes of the Services ("the confidential information").

Immediately upon the completion of the Services and the termination of the Consultant's engagement by the Principal, the Consultant shall deliver to the Principal all documents in any way relating to the confidential information which are then in the Consultant's possession.

The operation of this condition shall survive the termination of the Consultant's engagement with the Principal.

With respect to all work done in Western Australia under the Contract, the Consultant shall observe, perform and comply in all material respects with all relevant Industrial Awards, Industrial Agreements and orders of Competent Courts or Industrial Tribunals applicable to the work to be done under the Contract.

Failure by the Consultant to comply with sub clause (a) hereof shall entitle the Principal by notice in writing to the Consultant to forthwith terminate the Contract, but without prejudice to any other rights or remedies of the Principal.

Mentioning anything after includes, including, for example, or similar expressions, does not limit what else might be included.

If ALARA requires changes to the Congress Plans the Host must provide revised Congress Plans to ALARA as soon as practicable after consultations between the parties.

If the Host does not obtain ALARA's approval to the proposed Congress Plans by the date for the achievement of this Congress Milestone, ALARA may terminate this Agreement in accordance with clause 14.1.

ALARA must provide monthly statements to the Congress Organising Committee for each month during the term of this Agreement detailing all Congress Bank Account transactions in the relevant month.

ALARA must close the Congress Bank Account as soon as practicable after the completion of the Congress and the distribution of Congress proceeds in accordance with clause 6.4, and must provide the Congress Organising Committee with audited accounts in respect of the Congress Bank Account.

ALARA may make the ALARA Seed Funding available in instalments, at the times proposed by ALARA, in consultation with the Congress Organising Committee.

Unless otherwise agreed with ALARA, the Host must match the ALARA Seed Funding provided by ALARA, and must pay that funding into the Congress Bank Account at the same time and in the same amounts as the ALARA Seed Funding (Host Seed Funding).

ALARA may withhold instalments of the ALARA Seed Funding if Progress Reports are not provided in accordance with clause 5.4.

ALARA must provide monthly statements to the Congress Organising Committee for each month during the term of this Agreement detailing all Congress Bank Account transactions in the relevant month.

ALARA must close the Congress Bank Account as soon as practicable after the completion of the Congress and return any remaining Congress proceeds to the Host, and must provide the Congress Organising Committee with audited accounts in respect of the Congress Bank Account.]

Registration fees must be paid from the Congress Bank Acount in accordance with written instructions of the Congress Organising Committee.

must otherwise be effected on the terms and conditions as may from time to time be reasonably required by ALARA.

As soon as reasonably practicable after a request is made by ALARA to the Host, the Host must produce a current insurance policy or certificate of currency in respect of its insurance conforming with the requirements of this clause 8.2.

Neither ALARA nor the Host (including the Congress Organising Committee) may release any publications, promotional material, press or media statements (Public Statement) in respect of the Congress without the prior approval of the other party.

The party seeking approval must allow the other party 5 business days to give its approval.

If a party withholds its approval it may notify the other party of the changes it requires to the Public Statement.

If the party seeking approval makes all of the changes notified by the other party under sub-clause (c) above it may release the Public Statement without referring the revised Public Statement to the other party for re-approval, but must provide the other party with a copy of the Public Statement contemporaneously with its public release.

must be in writing and signed by the sender or a person duly authorised by the sender;

The mediator will be an independent person agreed between the parties or, failing agreement, a mediator will be appointed by the President of LEADR.

The mediation will be conducted in accordance with the Guidelines for those Involved in Mediation published by the Law Society of New South Wales, Australia.

HREC will review Researcher's application for Approval after payment of the Fee of $2000 (excluding GST).

The Approval will be forwarded to the Researcher after the review and finalisation process, as described in the Review of ethics applications from clients not affiliated with UNSW, is complete.

The Researcher will carry out the Project in accordance with the Approval.

The Researcher will notify HREC of any matter or circumstance of which the Researcher is aware which:

If requested, the Researcher will provide HREC with a report on matters including, but not limited to:

The Researcher will comply with any requirement made by HREC under this clause 2 within the time required by HREC.

HREC may, at any time withdraw or suspend the Approval upon being satisfied:

Where HREC makes a decision to withdraw or suspend the Approval in the pursuant to clause 3.1, HREC may require the Researcher to take steps to remedy or make good any harm or foreseeable harm arising from the circumstances giving rise to the withdrawal or suspension of Approval and the Researcher will take those steps as required by HREC and, unless otherwise specified by HREC, as soon as practicable.

HREC may, at any time by notice to the Researcher amend or change the Approval where satisfied that such change or amendment is required in order for the Approval to be or remain in accordance with the terms and intention of the National Statement.

The Researcher will promptly refer all complaints or concerns about the conduct of the Project to HREC to be dealt with in accordance with the usual procedure of HREC.

The Researcher may make a complaint about consideration of the Approval (including monitoring, amendment, withdrawal and suspension of an Approval) to the UNSW Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Research) which will be dealt with in accordance with the usual procedure of UNSW.

shall be reduced to the extent that UNSW has contributed to the loss, damage or liability.

The Coach will be required to provide the Services at times necessary to fulfil the requirements of item 4 of the schedule.

The Coach shall report to the person(s) specified in item 5 of the schedule.

The Club will pay the Coach the amount specified in item 6 of the schedule for the performance of the Services ("the Fee").

The Fee will be paid on the date specified in item 6 of the schedule by way of cheque or by such means as mutually agreed by the Coach and the Club.

Other Benefits: The Club will also provide the Coach with the benefits (if any) specified in item 7 of the schedule.

The Coach shall not by virtue of this agreement be, or for any purpose be deemed to be, an employee or agent of the Club unless so deemed for the purposes of the Income Tax Assessment Act , the Superannuation Guarantee Charge Legislation, Workcover legislation or the Payroll Tax Assessment Act.

The Coach will be responsible for:

The Coach may not incur expenses on behalf of the Club nor pledge the credit of the Club, except to the extent that the Coach has written authorisation from the Club to apply expenditure to a specified level for specified activities.

conduct himself with propriety and decorum and refrain from any conduct which may prejudice or lessen the value of his services as a coach for the Club;

The Coach agrees that he will not at any time, whether during the Term of this agreement or after its termination, disclose to any person any confidential information obtained during or incidental to the performance of the Services under this agreement.

In addition, the Coach must keep the contents of this agreement confidential to himself during the Term of this agreement and after its termination, except for the purposes of obtaining legal and financial advice or as otherwise required by law.

Unless otherwise agreed in writing, all confidential records, documents and other papers together with any copies or extracts thereof, made or acquired by the Coach in or incidental to the performance of the Services under this agreement shall be the property of the Club and must be returned to Club upon termination of this agreement.

For the purposes of sponsorship, promotional, and public relations activities of the Club and/or any sponsor of the Club, the Coach shall attend at and participate in such events as may reasonably be directed by the Club.

The Coach shall at all times when attending training, competition and official functions in his capacity as Coach wear only such clothing as approved and directed by the Club.

The Coach authorises the use by the Club of the Coach's name, fame, image, signature, voice, visual portrayal and reputation in the context of the sport for the purposes of advertising, promoting and marketing the Club in such reasonable manner as the Club sees fit and the Club shall further be entitled to sub-licence the rights granted in this clause to any and all sponsors of the Club for use by them in a reasonable manner.

Without in any way limiting clause 10.3, the Club may for the purposes of sponsorship, advertising, promotion and marketing:

Either party may terminate this agreement by giving the other party not less than thirty (30) days notice in writing.

In addition the Club may terminate this agreement without notice if the Coach:

Upon termination of this agreement, the Coach shall return to the Club all property belonging to the Club including, without limitation, documents, equipment and other materials in relation to the Services.

If a dispute arises out of or in relation to this agreement, the parties will confer in good faith with a view to resolving the matter in accordance with the following procedure:

The Supplier warrants that all Goods supplied in accordance with this Purchase Order will conform to description and any applicable specification and standards, shall be of good merchantable quality, and shall be fit for the purpose for which they are supplied.

The Purchaser may withhold payment where the Supplier fails to provide adequate documentation or other information required by the Order.

HWE may deduct (Set Off) from monies due to the Supplier any monies due or which will or may become due from the Supplier to HWE under or in connection with the supply of Goods or Services under this agreement.

stated in the Order, the Purchaser may give notice to the Supplier that unless the failure is remedied within a stated and reasonable time from receipt of the notice the Order shall be terminated in whole or in part.

"Business Insurance" means appropriate business insurance cover as described in your Business plan that has been taken out by you for the Period of NEIS Assistance, which will be verified as current at the first, and if necessary subsequent, Mentor Support visit(s), or as required.

"External Income" means any gross income you receive during the Period of NEIS Assistance that the Australian Taxation Office would regard as income.

"Mentor Support" may include assistance with the development of the Business; business advice about organisational, financial and marketing issues; and referral, where necessary, to specialist business professionals for additional advice and assistance (the cost of which is met by you).

"NEIS Allowance" means an allowance of an amount equal to the single, 21 or over, no children rate of Newstart Allowance (NSA), or such other rate as notified by DEEWR in writing, and may be varied from time to time by DEEWR to match increases or decreases to the rates of NSA.

maintain contact with you at least monthly during the Period of NEIS Assistance and ensure that it receives a response from you (any failure on your part to respond appropriately and promptly to a contact will be investigated by your NEIS Provider, and may, at DEEWR's sole discretion, result in DEEWR withholding payment of your NEIS Allowance and NEIS Rental Assistance until contact is made).

change of Business operations, for example, change due to your illness, you resuming employment or study, an intention on your part to relocate the Business, or any other event which is likely to affect whether the Business is Commercially Viable and/or that may prevent the Business from operating on a Full Time basis

(a) or (b), DEEWR will make PAYG deductions at the appropriate rate of taxation plus the Medicare Levy on each dollar of funding provided to you (see clause 27(c) of this Agreement).

If the Software is to be used on a networked System, the Licensee shall advise PPMP in writing immediately of any increase or proposed increase in the number of computers networked to the System, and pay any additional amount relating to the increased number of computers.

As part of the support services provided by PPMP, PPMP may provide the Licensee with Support Software, and in such an event the Support Software is subject to the terms of the licence granted in accordance with clause 2 but to the extent of support services only.

PPMP may charge for services requested by the Licensee which are not specifically covered by this Agreement.

PPMP may charge for service delivery if PPMP is unable to deliver by email.

Upon the expiration of the Initial Term, PPMP will continue to provide Support for subsequent terms of similar duration to the Initial Term provided that the Licensee does not default in payment of the Support Charges.

If the Licensee's Support Charge payments are not in default, no additional charges will be levied for Upgraded Versions of the Software.

In the event that the System is inoperable or requires or is under repair, the Licensee must report the same to PPMP for permission to Use the Software on a back-up system at no extra charge, until the System is operational.

Support Charges may also be subject to review as specified in clause 5.1 as well as to additional charges where any of the details specified in the schedule change.

If the Licensee disputes the whole or any portion of the amount claimed in an invoice submitted by PPMP, the Licensee shall pay the portion of the amount stated in the invoice which is not in dispute and shall notify PPMP in writing (within 7 days of receipt of the invoice) of the reasons for disputing the remainder of the invoice.

The Licensee shall pay PPMP interest on any amount due and not paid by the Licensee within the timeframe required by this Agreement at the rate interest specified on the relevant invoice.

If the Licensee discovers a material error which substantially affects the Licensee's use of the Software and notifies PPMP of the error within 90 days from the date of this Licence ('warranty period'), PPMP may at its sole option:

Without limitation to clause 10.1, PPMP expressly excludes liability for consequential loss or damage which may arise in respect of the Software, the Support Software, its use, the System or in respect of other equipment or property, or for loss of profit, business, revenue, goodwill or anticipated savings.

If any exclusion contained in this Agreement is held to be invalid for any reason and PPMP becomes liable for loss or damage that may lawfully be limited, such liability is limited to the Licence Fee and one annual Support Charge.

The Licensee shall at all times indemnify and hold harmless PPMP and its officers, employees and agents ('those indemnified') from and against any loss (including reasonable legal costs and expenses) or liability reasonably incurred or suffered by any of those indemnified arising from any proceedings against those indemnified where such loss or liability was caused by:

The Licensee acknowledges that any and all of the Intellectual Property Rights subsisting in or used in connection with the Software or the Support Software, including any modifications, improvements or enhancements made thereto, are and remain the sole property of PPMP or such other party as may be identified in or on it ('Owner').

The Licensee indemnifies PPMP fully against all liabilities, costs and expenses which PPMP may incur as a result of work done in accordance with the Licensee's specifications involving infringement of any Intellectual Property Rights.

The Licensee must give PPMP prompt notice of any claim of infringement or of suspected or alleged infringement under clause 13.1 that is made against the Licensee and PPMP has the right to defend any such claims and make settlements at its own discretion and the Licensee must give such assistance as PPMP may reasonably require to settle or oppose any such claims.

In the event that any such infringement occurs or may occur, PPMP may at its sole option and expense:

All information, data, drawings, specifications, documentation, software listings, source or object code which PPMP may have imparted and may from time to time impart to the Licensee relating to the Software, Support Software (other than the ideas and principles underlying the same) or support documentation or procedures is confidential.

The Licensee further agrees that it must not itself or through any subsidiary, agent or third party modify, vary, enhance, copy, sell, lease, license, sub-license or otherwise deal with the Software or any part or parts or variations, modifications, copies, releases, versions or enhancements of the Software or any Support Software or have any software or other program written or developed for it based on any confidential information supplied to it by PPMP.

If, in using the Software or Support Software, the Licensee discloses any practice or business information, financial information or patient information of a confidential nature to PPMP, PPMP agrees that it will keep confidential such information.

In addition to other provisions for termination in this Agreement, PPMP may by notice in writing to the Licensee terminate this Agreement, in whole or at PPMP's sole option with respect only to the support, in any of the following circumstances:

Upon termination, the Licensee must pay to PPMP all costs and expenses, including legal and other fees incurred and all arrears of fees, charges or other payments arising in respect of the Software, Support Software, or support generally, this Agreement or otherwise.

Termination is subject to any rights and remedies PPMP may have under this Agreement or at law.

In the event that this Agreement expires or terminates with respect to support only, the Licensee shall comply with the provisions of clause 8.3(h) where the same relates to any Support Software and documentation supplied by PPMP in performance of the support provisions of this Agreement.

A notice required or authorised to be given or served upon a party pursuant to this Agreement must be in writing in the English language and may be given or served by facsimile, prepaid registered post or hand to that party at its address or facsimile number appearing in this Agreement or such other address or facsimile number as the party may have notified in writing to the other party or parties.

an adverse change in the assets, financial or trading position of the Transferee of such significance that it is likely that the Transferee will become unable to comply with any of its other material obligations under this Deed.

Subject to this Deed, the Parties acknowledge and covenant that the Transferor will transfer to the Transferee the Policies, Assets and Assumed Liabilities on the Transfer Date in accordance with clause 8.

The Parties must use their best endeavours, cooperate in good faith and provide all reasonable assistance to each other to obtain PHIAC Approval.

If PHIAC Approval is not obtained by [insert date] or such later date as agreed in writing by the Parties, then a Party may, by written notice to the other Party, terminate this Deed.

The Transferor must from the date of this Deed until the Transfer Date continue to operate the Business as a going concern and in the ordinary and normal course, having regard to the nature of the Business and the Transferor's previous practice, in order to preserve the value of the Business and to maintain the Transferor's trading and financial position.

Without limiting clause 5.1, the Transferor must not, from the date of this Deed until the Transfer Date, do any of the following in respect of the Business without the prior written consent of the Transferee, which consent must not be unreasonably withheld or delayed:

The Transferee must from the date of this Deed until the Transfer Date continue to operate its health insurance business as a going concern and in the ordinary and normal course, having regard to the nature of the business and the Transferee's previous practice, in order to preserve the value of the business, and assets and to maintain the Transferor's trading and financial position.

Without limiting clause 5.3, the Transferee must not, from the date of this Deed until the Transfer Date, do any of the following in respect of its health insurance business without the prior written consent of the Transferor, which consent must not be unreasonably withheld or delayed:

The Transferor must give the Transferee and its representatives and agents reasonable access to all Business Records and documents relating to the Business, the Assets and the Assumed Liabilities, and provide any additional information in connection with the Business, any Asset and the Assumed Liabilities that the Transferee may require to act as insurer for the transferred Policies.

In spite of any provision of this Deed, the Excluded Assets will remain the Transferor's property and the Excluded Liabilities will remain the Transferor's liability.

The Transferor indemnifies and must keep the Transferee indemnified against all Liabilities in respect of any act or omission on the part of the Transferor in relation to the Contracts before the Transfer Date, and the Transferee indemnifies the Transferor against all Liabilities in respect of any act or omission on the part of the Transferee in relation to the Contracts on or after the Transfer Date.

For a period of [insert] years after the Transfer Date, the Transferor must ensure that it has sufficient cash and Assets, and appropriate insurance, to comply with its obligations under clause 9.1.

The Transferor indemnifies and must keep the Transferee indemnified against all Liabilities in respect of any act or omission on the part of the Transferor in relation to the Property Leases before the Transfer Date and the Transferee indemnifies the Transferor against all Liabilities in respect of any act or omission on the part of the Transferee in relation to the Property Leases on or after the Transfer Date.

For a period of [insert] years after the Transfer Date, the Transferor must ensure that it has sufficient cash and assets, and appropriate insurance, to satisfy its obligations under clause 10.1.

The Transferor indemnifies and must keep the Transferee indemnified against all Liabilities in respect of any act or omission on the part of the Transferor Insurer in relation to the Bank Accounts including overdrafts before the Transfer Date, and the Transferee indemnifies the Transferor against all Liabilities in respect of any act or omission on the part of the Transferee in relation to the Bank Accounts on or after the Transfer Date.

For a period of [insert] years after the Transfer Date, the Transferor must ensure that it has sufficient cash and assets, and appropriate insurance, to satisfy its obligations under clause 11.1.

From the Transfer Date, the Bank Accounts will be held solely by or for the benefit of the Transferee and form assets of the Receiving Fund, and the Transferee will have control and the exclusive right to withdraw moneys from the Bank Accounts.

The Transferee must, and must procure that any subsequent transferee of the Transferee will, retain possession of all Business Records for a period of 7 years following the Transfer Date.

For a period of 7 years from the Transfer Date the Transferee must after reasonable notice from the Transferor, allow the Transferor, its representatives and its directors or former directors, during normal business hours to inspect and take copies of the Business Records, to the extent that they relate to the period before the Transfer Date.

From the Transfer Date the Transferor must forward or redirect all deliveries, mail, faxes, telephone calls, email messages, inquiries and other correspondence received by it that relate to the Business after transfer to the Transferee.

For a period of [insert] years after the Transfer Date, the Transferor must ensure that it has sufficient cash and assets, and appropriate insurance, to satisfy its obligations under clause 14.2.

A Party may terminate this Deed by giving notice in writing to the other Party:

Each of the representations and warranties in clause 16 will be deemed to be repeated on the PHIAC Approval Date and the Transfer Date.

If stamp duty is payable on this Deed, or any instrument or transaction contemplated in or necessary to give effect to this Deed, the Transferor will bear the cost of and be responsible for that stamp duty.

The Parties agree that this Deed provides for the supply of a going concern for the purposes of the GST Act, and the Transferor must carry on the Business as a going concern until the Transfer Date.

To the extent that there is consideration to be paid or provided under this Deed and such consideration is not expressed to be GST inclusive, a Party must also pay the GST payable on a taxable supply made to it.

If a payment to satisfy a Claim or a right to Claim under or in connection with this Deed gives rise to a liability to pay GST, the payer must pay, and indemnify the payee against the amount of that GST.

If a Party has a Claim under or in connection with this Deed for a cost on which that Party must pay GST, the Claim is for the cost plus all GST (except any GST for which that Party is entitled to an input tax credit).

If a Party has a Claim under or in connection with this Deed whose amount depends on actual or estimated revenue or which is for a loss of revenue, revenue must be calculated without including any amount received or receivable as reimbursement for GST (whether that amount is separate or included as part of a larger amount).

Any notice or communication given to a Party under this Deed may be made by electronic mail or other electronic means if, prior to any notice or communication being given, the parties have done the following:

Each Party must promptly notify the other Party of any change to their electronic mail address or any other such information supplied by them.

A Party may recover a payment under an indemnity in this Deed before it makes the payment.

Where this Deed contemplates that a Party may agree or consent to something (however it is described), the Party may:

Each person who executes this Deed on behalf of a Party under a power of attorney declares that he or she is not aware of any fact or circumstance that might affect his or her authority to do so under that power of attorney.

This Deed may be executed in counterparts.

A Party may exercise a right, power or remedy at its discretion, and separately or concurrently with another right, power or remedy.

any variation of this Deed proposed by either Party will only be of any force or effect if it is in writing and signed by each Party to this Deed; and

the offer must be conditional on the employee being employed by the Transferor on the Transfer Date and on PHIAC Approval being obtained;

With effect from Transfer Date the Transferee must put in place superannuation arrangements which are no less favourable to Transferring Employees than those offered to Transferring Employees by the Transferor immediately before the Transfer Date.

"Company" shall mean Transworld Freight Services Pty Ltd and its successors and assigns.

"Sub-Contractor" shall mean and include;

"Customer" shall mean the Customer or any person or persons acting on behalf of and with the authority of the Customer.

"Goods" shall mean cargo together with any container, packaging, or pallet(s) supplied by the Customer to the Company for the purposes of movement from one place to another by way of the Company's Services (and where the context so permits shall include any supply of Services as hereinafter defined).

"Services" shall mean all services supplied by the Company to the Customer and includes any advice or recommendations (and where the context so permits shall include any supply of Goods as defined supra).

"Price" shall mean the cost of the Services as agreed between the Company and the Customer subject to clause 4 of this contract.

Any instructions received by the Company from the Customer for the supply of Services shall constitute acceptance of the terms and conditions contained herein.

Upon acceptance of these terms and conditions by the Customer the terms and conditions are irrevocable and can only be rescinded in accordance with these terms and conditions or with the written consent of the manager of the Company.

The Services shall be as described on the invoices, consignment Note, airway bills, manifests, sales order or any other forms as provided by the Company to the Customer.

The Company may by giving notice to the Customer increase the Price of the Services to reflect any increase in the cost to the Company beyond the reasonable control of the Company (including, without limitation, foreign exchange fluctuations, or increases in taxes or customs duties or insurance premiums or warehousing costs).

Time for payment for the Services shall be of the essence and will be stated on the invoice, consignment Note, airway bills, manifests or any other order forms.

Payment will be made by cash, or by cheque, or by bank cheque, or by direct credit, or by any other method as agreed to between the Customer and the Company.

The Price shall be increased by the amount of any GST and other taxes and duties that may be applicable, except to the extent that such taxes are expressly included in any quotation given by the Company.

The Customer hereby authorises the Company (if it should think fit to do so) to arrange with a Sub-Contractor for the carriage of any Goods the subject of the contract.

If the Customer instructs the Company to use a particular method of carriage whether by road, rail, sea or air the Company will give priority to the method designated but if that method cannot conveniently be adopted by the Company the Customer shall be deemed to authorise him to carry or have the Goods carried by another method or methods.

The Customer shall be deemed to authorise any deviation from the usual route or manner of carriage of Goods that may in the absolute discretion of the Company be deemed reasonable or necessary in the circumstances.

The Company is authorised to deliver the Goods at the address given to the Company by the Customer for that purpose and it is expressly agreed that the Company shall be taken to have delivered the Goods in accordance with this contract if at that address the Company obtains from any person a receipt or a signed delivery docket for the Goods.

The Company may deliver the Goods by separate instalments (in accordance with the agreed delivery schedule).

Unless otherwise expressly agreed in writing no responsibility in tort or contract or otherwise will be accepted by the Company for any loss of or damage to or deterioration of Goods or misdelivery or failure to deliver or delay in delivery of Goods including chilled, frozen refrigerated or perishable Goods either in transit or in storage for any reason whatsoever.

The failure of the Company to deliver shall not entitle either party to treat this contract as repudiated.

The Company shall not be liable for any loss or damage whatever due to failure by the Company to deliver the Goods (or any of them) promptly or at all.

the Customer provides written notice to the Company detailing the alleged damage, and that such written notice shall received by the Company seven (7) days after the delivery of the Goods; or

The Company will effect Insurance of goods as the Customer's agents and at the Customer's expense if the Customer instructs the Company in writing to do so, and where the Customer does not specify what class of insurance is to be affected the Company may effect that class of insurance which the Company considers to be most appropriate to the goods.

By entering into any agreement to which these conditions apply, the Customer on his own behalf and as agent of the owner, sender and consignee agrees and further offers to limit the liability of all servants, employees and agents of the Company in respect to the Goods and subject to the agreement to the extend that each such servant, employee and agent shall be protected by and entitled to the full benefit of all provisions in these conditions excluding or restricting tortuous liability of any kind;

Interest on overdue invoices shall accrue from the date when payment becomes due daily until the date of payment at a rate of 2.5% per calendar month and shall accrue at such a rate after as well as before any judgement.

If the Customer defaults in payment of any invoice when due, the Customer shall indemnify the Company from and against all the Company's costs and disbursements including on a solicitor and own client basis and in addition all of the Company's nominees costs of collection.

Without prejudice to any other remedies the Company may have, if at any time the Customer is in breach of any obligation (including those relating to payment), the Company may suspend or terminate the supply of Services to the Customer and any of its other obligations under the terms and conditions.

All unpaid charges shall be paid in full and without any offset, counter claim or deduction, in the currency of the place of receipt of the Goods or at the Company's option, in the currency of the place of delivery at the TT selling rate in affect on the day of payment.

Should the Company elect to proceed in any manner in accordance with this clause and/or its sub-clauses, the Customer and/or Guarantor shall indemnify the Company from and against all the Company's costs and disbursements including legal costs on a solicitor and own client basis.

To give effect to the provisions of clause [21.1 (a) and (b)] inclusive hereof the Customer and/or the Guarantor (if any) do hereby irrevocably nominate constitute and appoint the Company or the Company's nominee as the Customer's and/or Guarantor's true and lawful attorney to execute mortgages and charges (whether registerable or not) including such other terms and conditions as the Company and/or the Company's nominee shall think fit in his/her/its/their absolute discretion against the joint and/or several interest of the Customer and/or the Guarantor in any land, realty or asset in favour of the Company and in the Customer's and/or Guarantor's name as may be necessary to secure the said Customer's and/or Guarantor's obligations and indebtedness to the Company and further to do and perform all necessary and other acts including instituting any necessary legal proceedings, and further to execute all or any documents in the Company's absolute discretion which may be necessary or advantageous to give effect to the provisions of this clause.

The Customer agrees that Personal Data provided may be used and retained by the Company for the following purposes and for other purposes as shall be agreed between the Customer and Company or required by law from time to time:

The Company may give, information about the Customer to a credit reporting agency for the following purposes:

If any provision of these terms and conditions shall be invalid, void or illegal or unenforceable the validity existence, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not be affected, prejudiced or impaired.

The Company shall be under no liability whatever to the Customer for any indirect loss and/or expense (including loss of profit) suffered by the Customer arising out of a breach by the Company of these terms and conditions.

In the event of any breach of this contract by the Company the remedies of the Customer shall be limited to damages.

The Customer shall not set off against the Price amounts due from the Company.

Neither party shall be liable for any default due to any act of God, war, terrorism, strike, lock out, industrial action, fire, flood, drought, storm or other event beyond the reasonable control of either party.

2.1 and a term or terms in one or more other documents listed in clause 2.1, the term or terms in the document listed first will govern to the extent of the inconsistency.

(2) of the Civil Liability Act 2002 (NSW)), unlimited and otherwise unaffected by anything that, but for this clause 10.4, may by virtue of the provisions of the Civil Liability Act 2002 (NSW) have limited or otherwise affected those rights, obligations and liabilities.

11.1 will be taken to have been received:

consideration or negotiation of a request by the other party (Other Party) to vary this Agreement in a way that would vary any obligation of the Other Party under this Agreement; or

on the Statement have been paid, and all premiums owing during the term of the contract will be paid.

Subject to clause 3.2, the Recipient may disclose Confidential Information to the Recipient's Personnel on a need to know basis, solely to assist the Recipient in complying with or carrying out the Approved Purposes and on the condition that the Recipient's Personnel do not disclose the Confidential Information to any other person.

The Recipient must ensure that:

The Recipient must ensure that none of the Recipient's Personnel do or omit anything which, if done or omitted to be done by the Recipient, would constitute a breach of its obligations under this deed.

Any notice, demand, consent, approval or other communication ("a Communication") in connection with this deed by a party may (without limitation to any other valid form of execution) be signed by an Authorised Officer of that party (if a corporation), or by any solicitor acting for that party, whose signature may be handwritten or printed or otherwise reproduced by mechanical means.

Service under clause 9.2 will be valid even though the addressee may have been wound up or in liquidation (if a corporation) or the addressee is absent from the place at or to which the Communication is left, delivered or sent, or where the Communication is sent by post or otherwise, it is returned unclaimed.

A Communication in connection with this deed will be deemed to have been received by the person:

Unless the parties otherwise agree in writing a Communication in connection with this deed may not be sent by electronic mail ("email").

8.1 will be reduced proportionately to the extent that any act or omission involving fault on the part of CrimTrac or its Personnel contributed to the relevant cost, liability, loss, damage or expense.

1.1 and 11.1.2 in an amount that would exceed the compensation payable under clause 11.1.3.

12.2 will not be taken to have been breached to the extent that Confidential Information:

Subject to rights of earlier termination, this Agreement will continue for the Term.

The insurance policies required under this clause 10 will be effected and maintained with a reputable insurer acceptable to QUT.

In respect of any contract of insurance specified in clause 10.1 which is 'claims made' or 'claims made and notified' insurance, the Consultant will continue to maintain such insurance for period of 12 months after expiry of the Term.

The Consultant must, on request by QUT, produce evidence of the insurance required under clause 4.4 and this clause 10.

The Consultant will perform the Consulting Services in accordance with all laws and at its own risk.

The Consultant will be liable for loss of damage (including personal injury whether or not resulting in death) suffered by QUT, its officers, employees, agents, visitors, invitees, or licensees arising from the acts or omissions of the Consultant, in the course of performance (or attempted or purported performance) of the Consulting Services

The Consultant must inform QUT in writing of any claim or of the occurrence of any event that may give rise to a claim under the insurance policies required under clauses 4.4 and 10 or the indemnity provisions in this clause 11, within 7 days of the claim or event occurring, and must ensure QUT is kept fully informed of subsequent actions and developments concerning the claim or event.

Subject to the mutual written agreement of QUT and the Consultant, this agreement may be terminated at any time.

On termination of this Agreement pursuant to this clause, all money that has been paid and all money to be paid for work done up to the date of termination will be in full and final satisfaction of all claims by the Consultant under this Agreement.

Upon expiry or termination of this Agreement, the Consultant will provide all assistance reasonably requested by QUT to achieve an orderly transition.

Notices under this Agreement may be delivered by prepaid postage or certified mail by hand or by facsimile transmission to the parties at the address set out in Item 9 of the Schedule or such other address or facsimile as either party may specify by notice in writing to the other.

Notices will be deemed to be given:

The Consultant must not assign or otherwise deal with its rights or interests under this Agreement without the prior written consent of QUT.

QUT will not be obliged to consent to any assignment or any other dealing of rights or interests under this Agreement

If GST is payable by a supplier on any supply made under this Agreement, the recipient will pay to the supplier an amount equal to the GST payable on the supply

The recipient will pay the amount of GST referred to in clause 15.2(c) in addition to and at the same time that the consideration for the supply is to be provided under this Agreement, provided the supplier delivers to the recipient a valid tax invoice or adjustment note at or before the time payment is required.

If an adjustment event arises in respect of a taxable supply made by a supplier under this Agreement, the amount payable by the recipient under clause 15.2(c) will be recalculated to reflect the adjustment event and a payment will be made by the recipient to the supplier or by the supplier to the recipient as the case requires.

"Pay As You Go" withholding amounts will be deducted from payments to be made to the Consultant, if at the time payment is required, the Consultant has not provided to QUT a valid Australian Business Number.

This Agreement may only be varied or replaced by a document executed by the parties.

that it initiates a connection to the Land Titles On-Line Service from hardware or a source that is under the control and/or ownership of the Subscriber, and must not initiate a connection from hardware or a source that it knows or ought reasonably to know is a high risk for computer viruses and instability, including:

Contractor must not disclose Registrar-General Information

Contractor must notify the Registrar-General

In this clause 9.4 "liability, loss or expense" includes any amount paid by the Registrar-General on behalf of the Commonwealth for an interference with the privacy of an individual being a reasonable amount as compensation for loss or damage for which the Commonwealth would have been liable under the Privacy Act 1988 (Cwlth) if that breach had been that of the Registrar-General.

If a variation to the provisions of this Agreement results in an increase of any fees or charges payable by the Subscriber under this Agreement, the Registrar-General will provide the Subscriber with 30 days notice of the variation.

The Subscriber's continued use of the Land Titles On-Line Service following notification pursuant to clauses 15.5(1) or 15.5(2) will represent an agreement by the Subscriber to be bound by the Agreement as amended.

10.2 will survive the expiration or earlier termination of this Agreement.

The Subscriber must pay for the security token fee at the time they execute the agreement..

9.1 and the review will be completed within 18 months of the date of the first meeting of the working party.

working days of the union representatives' referral of the dispute to the employer or his/her nominee, either party may refer the matter to the WAIRC.

request that all or any members of the Panel provide a quotation for the provision of the Works, notwithstanding that pre-agreed rates may form part of this Agreement;

Queensland University of Technology may terminate the Agreement with effect on and from the date the finance company receives written notice from Queensland University of Technology that the Employee has ceased to be employed, engaged or on unpaid leave by Queensland University of Technology for whatever reason.

In the event of unpaid leave, the employee will need to ensure that sufficient salary sacrifice funds are available to meet all costs associated with Queensland University of Technology supplied vehicle(s) during periods of unpaid leave, for whatever reason the leave arises.

Notwithstanding the above, Queensland University of Technology may terminate the Agreement at any time should changes in any legislation or the enactment of any new legislation impose on Queensland University of Technology financial or other obligations in relation to the Arrangement which are, in Queensland University of Technology's sole discretion, unacceptable to Queensland University of Technology.

Upon termination, the Employee will deliver the Vehicle back to Queensland University of Technology in the same condition (fair wear and tear excepted) as at the Commencement Date.

years after Student enrolls in Company's training course, he/she will not, directly or indirectly, on behalf of himself or on behalf of or in conjunction with others, as principal, agent, servant, or otherwise, to engage in, or have an interest in, the same or competitive line of business, such as trading hotline, chat room, trading software, or similar business enterprise, now carried on by Company anywhere in the world.

onsite from a computer or terminal on the Licensee's Secure Network located at the Site and via which Authorised Users can additionally access the Licensed Work(s) offsite via a modem link to a valid IP address on the Licensee's Secure Network located at the site;

,Authorised Users may, for personal use only:

The Licensee and Authorised Users may not:

supply the article and pay the Licensor's standard document delivery copyright royalty rate; (ii) forward the request to the Licensor who will undertake to provide the article on a pay per view basis; (iii) forward the request to a document delivery company; or (iv) return the request unfulfilled.

in such inter-library loans, provided the confidentiality of user data shall be maintained.

shall perform all services in a professional, competent and timely manner and with due care, skill and diligence at the level of an experienced and competent professional providing services of a similar nature to those which the Consultant is required to provide;

The Recipient acknowledges and confirms that at all times it is and was understood and agreed to, with WPS, that WPS will provide the Confidential Information to the Recipient on the terms set herein.

The Recipient shall maintain and take all steps necessary to maintain all Confidential Information and all notes in strictest confidence; ensure that proper and secure storage is provided for the Confidential Information and all Notes while in the possession or under the control of the Recipient the Recipient shall; Take all precautions necessary to prevent accidental disclosure of any of the Confidential Information or any of the Notes; Not disclose any of the Confidential Information or Notes to any person other than those of the Recipient's employees, officers and agents who are required to receive and consider the Confidential Information in the course of (and solely for the purpose of) the Approved Purposes; Use Confidential Information and Notes only as necessary in connection with the Approved Purposes; Not make Notes or allow Notes to be made except as necessary in connection with the Approved Purposes; Keep confidential the fact that Confidential Information has been provided by WPS to the Recipient and not allow express or implied disclose of the existence of the Confidential Information or Notes.

The Recipient must; Ensure that all of its employees, officers, agents or shareholders who already have access or will receive or will have access to Confidential Information are bound in the same manner and to the same extent as the Recipient is bound by this agreement, as though they were the Recipient, by a deed in favor of WPS which applies to all Confidential Information and Notes and which is on the same terms and conditions (with necessary changes) as are contained in this agreement; Use its best endeavors to cause all of its employees, officers, agents or shareholders who receive or have access to Confidential Information or Notes to observe all of the Recipient's obligations and undertakings contained in this agreement and the deeds referred to in clause 4.1; Give notice to WPS, before allowing any other employees, officers ,agents or shareholders to have access to Confidential Information, of their identity; and from time to time when requested by WPS, immediately supply WPS with a list of the persons to whom Confidential Information has been disclosed; Provide confirmation that those persons have entered into written deeds as provided by this agreement and, if requested by WPS, copies of those deeds.

The Recipient must return all documents and other media which contain Confidential Information and deliver all Notes to WPS and delete all Notes electronically stored immediately as requested by WPS.

The Recipient must also at the same time as it returns the documents and Notes referred to in clause 5.1, ensure that its officers and employees return any of the Documents, details and Notes held by them including all Notes electronically stored.

If the Recipient is required, or anticipates or has cause to anticipate that it may be required, by law or court order to disclose Confidential Information or Notes, the Recipient must immediately notify WPS of the actual or anticipated requirement and use its best endeavors (without breach of applicable law) to delay, without disclosure, until WPS has a reasonable opportunity to oppose disclosure by lawful means.

If the Recipient is required by law or court order to disclose Confidential Information or Notes to any person the Recipient must, before disclosure, notify that person of the existence of this agreement and the Recipient's obligation of confidence.

The Recipient acknowledges that it is making an independent evaluation of the project and assessment of the Confidential Information and that it must verify all information upon which it intends to rely to its own satisfaction and any opinions expressed in the Confidential Information are based on the knowledge and approach of the persons forming the opinion at the date that the opinion was formed, and that it may not be appropriate in the light of subsequent knowledge or attitudes.

The Recipient acknowledges that: the Confidential Information and improvements are at all times the property of WPS; a breach of this agreement would be harmful to the business interests of WPS and monetary damages alone would not be a sufficient remedy for a breach of this agreement; and in addition to any other remedy which may be available in law or equity WPS is entitled to interim, interlocutory and permanent injunctions or any of them to prevent breach of this agreement and to compel specific performance of it.

For 2 years after the date of this agreement in the circumstances described in clause 10.2 WPS is entitled to appoint an appropriately qualified independent assessor and the Recipient, within reason and with reasonable notice, must allow the independent assessor to have access to all of its related records, materials and business premises in order to determine whether there has been a breach of this agreement.

The independent assessor appointed under clause 10.1 is not obliged to reveal to WPS any information which is confidential to the Recipient which comes into his or her possession, but may use it to enable him or her to supply a report to WPS as to whether the Recipient has committed a breach of this agreement.

If the independent assessor report finds that the Recipient has made use of Confidential Information in violation of this agreement, WPS may further require the independent assessor to make a fair assessment of the importance of the Confidential Information to the work in which it is used by the Recipient and WPS is entitled to share in the benefits of the work as reasonably determined by the independent assessor.

The Recipient must pay to WPS all liabilities and costs referred to in clause 11.1 whether or not WPS has paid or satisfied them.

The Recipient and any of its respective employees, officers or agents must promptly communicate in writing to WPS details of the specifications of any improvements.

The Recipient acknowledges that as a consequence of receiving the Confidential Information and evaluating the project, the recipient may gain a material advantage, which it could, but for the obligations of confidentiality imposed by the Agreement and the obligation under this clause, exploit for its own benefit.

In addition to the obligation of confidentiality set out in the Agreement, without the prior consent of WPS, the Recipient must not, while in possession of or having access to the Confidential Information or for a period specified in clause 14.3, engage or be concerned or interested in any business agreement, arrangement, venture, project, proposal or undertaking the same as or similar to the Project.

The Recipient may not assign or otherwise deal with the whole or any part of this agreement except with the prior written consent of WPS.

In addition to any other method of service provided by law, the Notice may be: sent by prepaid registered post to the address for service of the addressee, if the address is in United States of America and the notice is sent from within the United States of America; Sent by prepaid airmail to the address for service of the addressee, if the address is outside of The United States of America or if the Notice is sent from outside The United States of America; Sent by facsimile to the facsimile number of the addressee; or delivered at the address for service of the addressee.

The Employee must, if the University so requires, provide evidence to the reasonable satisfaction of the University that any absence of more than three (3) days was due to illness or injury.

The University may terminate the Employee's employment as a result of one or more of the following:

If a staff member is retrenched, the Employee will be paid the relevant amount calculated in accordance with the HUPP.

(a) will attempt to resolve the matter at the workplace level, including, but not limited to:

Upon completion of this Agreement or in the event of termination, the Consultant must as soon as practicable return to the Principal the Principal's Materials and the Contract Material.

3.6 will  		survive the expiration or termination of this Agreement.

Insurance (This clause should not be changed unless approved by the Executive Director Finance and Services)

(c) will not operate if clause 6.1(b) provides 	that the amounts payable by the Principal under this Agreement to 	the Consultant include GST.

(a) will be reduced proportionately to the extent that any negligent or wilful act or omission of the Principal contributed to the relevant liability, loss or damage, or loss or expense.

This Agreement may be referred to as the National Third Party Access Code for Natural Gas Pipeline Systems: Fifth Amending Agreement.

4.4 and 4.5, within 3 months of the termination of the Original Commonwealth Agreement the Researcher must pay to the company established to govern the New From Existing CRC (the Company) the Unexpended Grant Amount.

4.1 will not have been properly made if:

to 4.5, upon the written request of the Researcher the Commonwealth may, at its absolute discretion, permit the monies that would otherwise be required to be paid to the Company or the Commonwealth in accordance with clause 4.2 to be retained by the Researcher to be used in accordance with a purpose agreed by the Commonwealth and permitted under the terms of the Original Commonwealth Agreement.

4.7 and monies so retained by the Researcher under clause 4.7 are not fully used for the purpose agreed to by the Commonwealth within any timeframe for such use specified by the Commonwealth, or are used for a purpose not permitted by the Commonwealth, the Researcher must pay immediately to the Commonwealth the portion of those monies that are not used in accordance with the agreed purpose, such amount being a debt due to the Commonwealth without further proof of the debt by the Commonwealth.

The indemnity provided by the Researcher under clause 19 of the Original Commonwealth Agreement will survive the termination of the Original Commonwealth Agreement.

(s) of exclusive use are agreed upon or resolved, they shall be rotated amongst the Syndicate Members in each and every subsequent gliding season.

These Trading Conditions and any collateral agreements made by the Company with the Customer wherever made shall be governed and construed according to the laws of the State of Australia in which this agreement is entered into and shall be subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of the Courts of the said State.

If these Trading Conditions are held to be subject to the laws of the Commonwealth of Australia or of any particular State or any other legislature then these conditions shall continue to apply and shall be void only to the extent that they are inconsistent with or repugnant to those laws and no further.

All the rights, immunities and limitations of liability contained herein shall continue to have their full force and effect in all the circumstances notwithstanding any breach of any term or condition hereof or any collateral agreement by the Company and notwithstanding that the Services have been provided, the Goods delivered as directed by the Customer or the Authorisation having expire or been terminated.

Where any provision (or part thereof) of these Trading Conditions is held by a Court to be unenforceable, it shall in no way affect or prejudice the enforceability of any other term or condition herein.

No modification amendments or other variation of the Trading Conditions shall be valid and binding on the Company unless made in writing and duly executed by and on behalf of the Company.

The Company acknowledges that where, terms of Carriage are limited pursuant to convention, statute, law, bill of lading or airway bill, and the transport of the goods extends or requires transport outside and beyond the terms provided for in that convention, statute, law, bill of lading or airway bill then the Customer may be required to enter into a further contractual agreement with the forwarder or carrier regarding that portion of transport in order to limit liability on behalf of the forwarder or carrier, or where the transport was unforseen, the limitation of liability provisions in place for the foreseen transport will extend to the unforeseen transport, even where that liability provision does not envision transport of that kind.

The Authorized Signatory acknowledges and agrees that it has received the Trading Conditions, understands the Trading Conditions and by signing the Authorisation, the Customer will be bound by the Trading Conditions.

Wherever it is necessary, for the purpose of these Trading Conditions or any other purpose whatever, for instructions to be given to the Company, such instructions will be valid only if given in writing, acknowledged by the Company in writing and given in sufficient time in all the circumstances for the Company reasonably to be able to adopt the instructions.

Notwithstanding any prior dealings between the Company and the Customer or any rule of law or equity or provision of any statute or regulation to the contrary, or any contracts, documents and other matter (including cash, cheques, bank drafts and other remittances) sent to the Company through the post shall be deemed not to have been received by the Company unless and until they are actually delivered to the Company at its office address or placed in the Company's post office box, if so addressed.

The Company reserves complete freedom to decide the manner or procedure to be adopted for any or all of the various acts that will be necessary for the completion of the Services.

The Company is entitled to retain and be paid all brokerages, commissions, allowances and other remunerations customarily retained by or paid to shipping and forwarding agents and (where the Company accepts specific instructions under clause 19 to effect insurance) insurance broker whether declared or otherwise and no such brokerage, commission or allowance or other remuneration shall be payable or allowable to the Customer or its principal (if any).

The Customer shall be responsible for payment of any GST liability in respect of the Services as provided by the Company or by third parties or Sub-contractors which shall be payable at the same time as the GST-exclusive consideration.

The Customer must also pay GST on the Taxable Supply to the Company, calculated by multiplying the GST exclusive consideration by the GST Rate.

GST shall be payable by the Customer without any deduction or set-off for any other amount at the same time as the GST exclusive consideration is payable.

If the Customer defaults in the payment on the due date of any amount payable under this subclause 12(2) then without prejudice to any other remedies of the Company and upon demand by the Company, the Customer shall pay to the Company an amount equal to the amount of any damages or interest or additional GST that may become payable by the Company due to the default of the Customer.

(1) or fees payable for Services provided by the Company) are not made within seven days of the due date, the Customer will be in default and without limiting any other rights of the Company, the Customer shall pay to the Company, by way of liquidated damages, interest at the rate of 24 per cent per annum on the amount outstanding calculated from the due date until payment is made in full.

The Company, its servants or agents shall have a special and general lien on the Assets and a right to sell the Assets whether by public or private sale or auction without notice, for freight, demurrage, detention charges, duty, fines, penalties, salvage, average of any kind whatsoever and without limitation and for any and all debts, charges, expenses or other sums due and owing by the Customer or the Customer's principals, servants or agents.

shall survive delivery of the Assets and the Company shall be entitled to retain the proceeds of sale of the Assets in respect of any outstanding amounts referred to in this clause.

The Customer acknowledges that a breach or failure to observe all or any of the warranties in subclause 17(1) could lead to penalties or damages to the Customer and also to the Company and the Customer agrees to provide the indemnity to the Company on account of such penalties or damages pursuant to clause 18.

The nature of the indemnity provided pursuant to subclause 18(1) will include, without limitation, all penalties, liabilities and damages assessed against the Company and its officers and employees, together with all legal costs incurred by the Company (calculated on a solicitor/client basis).

The Company may execute all or any of its rights pursuant to clause 16 to recover any amounts owing pursuant to this clause 18.

The Customer agrees that the value of the Goods shall not be declared or inserted in a Bill of Lading or a sea carriage document for the purpose of extending a ship or carrier's liability under the Carriage of Goods by Sea Act 1991 and Regulations 1998 except upon express instructions given by the Customer.

In the case of carriage by air, no option or declaration of value to increase air-carrier's liability under Article 22(2) of the First Schedule to the Civil Aviation (Carrier's Liability) Act 1959, will be made except on express instruction given in writing by the Customer.

In the case of carriage by land, or any carriage ancillary to the carriage mentioned above and not expressly provided for under any contract within these Trading Conditions, under convention or under any statute or law, the Customer agrees that the value of the Goods shall not be declared or inserted into a contractual document or as part of the trading terms for the purpose of extending the forwarder or carrier's liability under any circumstance except upon express conditions agreed to in writing by the carrier or forwarder who expressly elect to waive that right.

In all other cases where there is a choice of charges by carriers, warehousemen, stevedores or others according to the extent of the liability assumed by the carriers, warehousemen, stevedores or others no declaration of value (where optional) will be made for the purpose of extending liability, and the Goods will be forwarded or dealt with at the Customer's risk for minimum charges, unless express instructions in writing to the contrary are given by the Customer.

The Company shall have no obligation to take any action in respect of any Goods that may be recognisable as belonging to the Customer unless it has received suitable instructions relating to such Goods together with all necessary documents.

Where the Goods are perishable and are not taken up immediately upon arrival or are insufficiently or incorrectly addressed or marked or otherwise not identifiable, they may be sold or otherwise disposed of with or without notice to the Customer, consignor, owner or consignee of the Goods and payment or tender of the net proceeds of any sale after deduction of all costs, expenses and charges incurred by the Company in effecting such sale or disposal shall be equivalent to delivery.

Where the Goods are non-perishable and cannot be delivered either because they are insufficiently or incorrectly addressed or marked or otherwise not identifiable or because they are not collected or accepted by the consignee they may be sold or returned at the Company's option at any time after the expiration of 21 days from a notice in writing sent to the Customer at the address which the Customer gave to the Company on delivery of the Goods.

any liability to pay amounts to Government Authorities (including, without limitation, Customs Duty or GST) that would not have otherwise been payable or any penalties (including penalties imposed directly on the Company, its servants or agents as a result of their reliance on incorrect information provided by the Customer, consignor or consignee of the Goods, or their respective agents whether imposed by Court or Infringement Notice);

If the Customer is a company, the directors and shareholders of that company will guarantee the Debts and indemnify and keep indemnified the company against the Debts.

For the purposes of subclause 39(1), the Customer will ensure that its directors and shareholders will sign any other documents required by the Company to evidence and confirm any guarantee and indemnity in the form annexed.

On receiving a claim, the State must make a corresponding claim for compensation to the Commonwealth. "

visa only & will end upon either;

During the Term the Employee will be employed by the Host Employer and the Host Employer's terms and conditions of employment will govern the Employee's employment, including, without limitation:

The Employee will perform the duties of (insert position) in accordance with the job description and duty statement provided by the Host Employer and set out in the Schedule (the "Duties").

Any changes to the Duties to be performed by the Employee, or the location at which they are performed, must be approved by both parties in writing prior to such changes taking effect.

all entitlements to which the Employee would otherwise have been entitled to under relevant CDU awards and certified agreements (the "CDU conditions") will cease to accrue;

If a dispute arises between the Substantive Employer and the Host Employer as to any matter or thing arising out of this Agreement, an attempt will be made to resolve the dispute by negotiation.

If the Substantive Employer and the Host Employer are unable to resolve the dispute by negotiation within (insert) days of the dispute arising, or such longer period as agreed, the matter will be referred to the Chief Executive Officers of those parties for dispute resolution.

If the Chief Executive Officers are unable to resolve the matter within (insert) days, or such longer period as agreed, they will agree upon a process for resolving the dispute through an external dispute resolution process such as conciliation, mediation, independent expert determination, or a combination thereof.

If the Chief Executive Officers are unable to agree on an appropriate external dispute resolution process, either party may refer the matter to the President of the Law Society of the Northern Territory who will determine an appropriate external dispute resolution process and an appropriate provider of such process.

If the President of the Law Society of the Northern Territory determines that the dispute will be resolved by an independent expert, the independent expert's decision will be absolute and final and will bind the parties accordingly and this Agreement will be deemed to be amended to incorporate the terms of the independent expert's decision.

In making any decision the independent expert will be deemed to be acting as an expert and not an arbitrator.

The Substantive Employer and the Host Employer will bear the costs of the external dispute resolution process equally.

MWTG will use its best efforts to ensure that the Professional Service is performed but does not represent or guarantee a certain outcome, nor make any warranties or representations regarding the Service.

If the Client wishes to have a Consultant replaced by another Consultant, it must advise MWTG of such request and MWTG will use its best efforts to replace the Consultant with a suitable qualified replacement.

MWTG and the Client shall conduct meetings at times mutually agreed upon to assess the progress of the commercial cooperation between the parties as outlined in this Agreement.

The Client and MWTG may agree on a Fixed Price Arrangement, in which case the Fixed Price payable by the Client upon invoice from MWTG is stated in Item 8b of Schedule 1.

In the event that MWTG is liable to the Client for the payment of any sums of money, the Client is to provide a statement of the moneys owing to them, and, upon acceptance thereof by MWTG, MWTG may deduct that amount from the amount stated in the invoice provided in accordance with this Agreement.

If GST is imposed on any supply made under or in accordance with this document, the recipient of the taxable supply must pay to the supplier an additional amount equal to the GST payable on or for the taxable supply subject to the recipient receiving a valid tax invoice in respect of the supply at or before the time of payment.

If GST is imposed on any Supply made pursuant to this Agreement, then the Client shall pay any GST imposed in respect of such Supply (in addition to any Fees or other costs or expenses payable in respect of that Supply).

If the Fees are expressly stated to be inclusive of GST and any applicable law increases or decreases, the rate of GST will be increased or decreased proportionately.

If any amount payable by the Client is calculated by reference to any cost, expense or liability ('Cost') incurred by any person including MWTG, then such Cost, shall be the Cost actually incurred less the amount of any input tax credits which that party is entitled to claim in respect of that Cost.

MWTG shall issue a tax invoice in accordance with the GST law.

During the Service Period, the Consultant will have access to:

MWTG will use reasonable efforts to ensure that:

All previous negotiations, understandings, representations, warranties, memoranda or commitments in relation to, or in any way affecting, the subject matter of this document are merged in and superseded by this document and shall be of no force or effect whatever and no party shall be liable to any other party in respect of those matters.

The Funding Recipient must, in any publicity in relation to the Project approved by DFAT under clause 7.1(a), acknowledge the financial and other support provided by DFAT, in the manner set out in Schedule 1 or otherwise approved by DFAT prior to its use.

The Funding Recipient must use the Funds only in accordance with the Budget, which is set out in the table below:

The Funding Recipient must report the transfer of all Funds between categories, whether made under the preceding subclause 1.2 or with the approval of DFAT, in its acquittal report that it provides to DFAT.

(c) and unless otherwise agreed, the Client shall pay the full amount owing in respect of each account at settlement of the sale of the properties.

If the Client disputes the amount claimed in an account submitted by the Consultant, the Client shall notify the Consultant in writing within 14 days.

The Client may also seek assistance from the Real Estate and Business Agents Supervisory Board in relation to disputes as to the fees to be received by the Consultant.

The Staff Member must not, without the University's written consent, deal with the Intellectual Property in a manner which is inconsistent with the provisions of this Deed.

Where the Staff Member received payment under clause 4.1 of this Deed, that payment will be paid to the Staff Member in arrears on calendar quarters starting on the calendar quarter after the University received the first payment from which the Staff Member will receive a payment.

The Staff Member will be responsible for any personal tax implications as a result of payments or equity received pursuant to this clause 4.1.

(b) and (c) above shall be made as the Manager as principal and on terms and conditions under which the Contributor is satisfied (in its discretion) that no liability may attach directly or indirectly to the Contributor.

above, including the terms and conditions of the sale, shall be notified by the Manager to the Contributor as soon as reasonably practicable after the date of sale.

No contract for the provision of the Goods and Services shall arise until your Registration has been confirmed in accordance with clause 2.2.

Registration shall be confirmed upon the clearing of the payment of the Registration Fee by way of email sent to the email address nominated by you at the time of submitting your application for registration through Our Website,

If in future, you buy Goods and Services from us under any arrangement which does not involve your payment via Our Website, these terms still apply so far as they can be applied.

You agree that you have provided, and will continue to provide accurate, up to date, and complete information about yourself.

The Reunite Service Pack will be posted to you within 10 working days of the completion and receipt of correct Registration and declaration forms.

If we are not able to provide your Goods and Services within 10 days of the date of your order, we shall notify you by e-mail to tell you the likely provision date.

Our Goods and Services will be provided by posted mail and telephone making them available to you in the way we have explained in Our Website.

If a change we make in the provision of the Goods and Services, involves action on your part, and you do not take that action within a reasonable time after requested to do so, we will be entitled to immediately terminate the provision of the Goods and Services to you.

While every effort is made to ensure that the Reunite Service is operating continuously, we can not and do not guarantee that the service will reunite separated parties.

You may cancel your order for the Goods and Services at any time before the expiry of 7 working days from the date of order, not including the day you ordered.

In the event that your order is cancelled within the period afforded under clause 5.1, we will endeavour to refund monies paid by you in relation to the cancelled order within 30 days of cancellation.

We shall not be liable to you for any loss howsoever sustained, relating to or arising in connection with your use of or access or reference to Our Website or any portion of the Content.

You agree that you will not, and will not allow any other person to violate or attempt to violate any aspect of the security of Our Website.

You may not use any software tool for the purpose of extracting data from our website.

You understand that any such violation is unlawful and that any contravention of law may result in civil and criminal prosecution.

We will defend the intellectual property rights in connection with our goods and Services and Our Website, including all copyright, trademarks or designs in the Content whether provided by us or by any other content provider (including copyright in: text, graphics, logos, icons, images, audio clips, digital downloads, data, and software).

You may not copy, modify, publish, transmit, transfer or sell, reproduce, create derivative works from, distribute, perform, display, or in any way exploit any of the Content, in whole or in part.

You may not use our name or logos or trade marks or any other Content on any website of yours or that of any other person.

You acknowledge and agree that if we believe such selection does interfere with the rights of any third party or is being selected for any unlawful purpose, we may immediately suspend the use of such name or email address, and you will indemnify us for any claim or demand that arises out of your selection.

You acknowledge and agree that we shall not be liable to you in the event that we are ordered or required by a court or judicial authority, to desist from using or permitting the use of a particular domain name as part of a name or email address.

We may, by way of email or other written correspondence immediately terminate your contract with us for the provision of the Goods and Services without the payment of any compensation and without any liability to you, in the event that you are in breach of any of your obligations under these terms and conditions.

In the event that we exercise our rights under clause 12.1, such action shall be without prejudice to any right to claim compensation for any breach of these terms and conditions committed by you prior to termination taking place.

You herby agree that you will not raise any objection to the use of electronic communications as referred to in clause 13.1 in the formation of a valid and enforceable contract.

Nothing in this agreement or on Our Website shall confer on any third party any benefit or obligation.

If any of these terms is at any time held by any jurisdiction to be void, invalid or unenforceable, then it shall be treated as changed or reduced, only to the extent minimally necessary to bring it within the laws of that jurisdiction and to prevent it from being void and it shall be binding in that changed or reduced form.

No waiver by us, in exercising any right, power or provision in this agreement shall operate as a waiver of any other right or of that same right at a future time; nor shall any delay in exercise of any power or right be interpreted as a waiver.

This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the law of Queensland, Australia.

cease when (but only to the extent that) the Message or the information must, by law, be disclosed or has become public knowledge.

1.1 will be reduced proportionately to the extent that any act or omission involving fault on the part of IP Australia or its Personnel contributed to the relevant liability.

the Access Party accounts and records will enable tracking of Exploitation Revenue to ensure correct delivery of Threshold Payments to the Commonwealth.

months of collecting Samples under this Deed or on or before 31 March first occurring after collection, whichever is the later, the Access Party will provide a report to the Commonwealth containing the following records for each Sample taken:

includes a Sample of an undescribed species the Sample must be given a unique identifier, and the Access Party must subsequently advise the Commonwealth the scientific name of, or given to, the Sample when described.

the Access Party's liability to indemnify the Commonwealth under this clause will be reduced proportionally to the extent that any fault on the Commonwealth's part contributed to the relevant loss, damage, expense, or liability.

A provision of this Agreement must not be construed to the disadvantage of a party merely because that party was responsible for the preparation of the Agreement or the inclusion of the provision in the Agreement.

If an act must be done on a specified day which is not a Business Day, it must be done instead on the next Business Day.

If GST is payable on any taxable supply by either party to the other in connection with this Deed, the party providing the consideration in exchange for the taxable supply must pay an additional amount equal to the GST and must indemnify the other party in respect of that additional amount.

Nothing in this Agreement is to be construed as prohibiting or limiting the right of the Principal to carry out and conduct such other business as it may see fit provided:

The Principal is solely responsible for all costs, charges and expenses incurred in connection with the operation of its business pursuant to this Agreement, including but not limited to referral fees, paraplanning fees and staffing costs including workers compensation, payroll tax and superannuation guarantee contributions as well as all professional liability including negligence, contract and fraudulent actions involved in the conduct of its business and in acting for TSG other than such as may be agreed in writing.

The Representative must immediately advise TSG in writing if any of the warranties in clause 5.1 cease to be true during the term of this Agreement.

The Representative must ensure that all monies payable to any Product Issuer and collected by the Representative from Clients must be collected by way of cheque, direct debit, transfer or money order payable to the Product Issuer to whom the monies are payable or in such other manner as TSG approves in writing from time to time.

The Representative must ensure that all monies payable to TSG in respect of fees and collected by the Representative from Clients must be collected by way of cheque, direct debit, transfer or money order payable to TSG or in such other manner as TSG approves in writing from time to time.

All monies collected in accordance with clause 9.1 or 9.2 must be remitted to TSG or the Product Issuer to whom they are payable immediately following receipt by the Representative.

In the event that the Representative collects any monies due or payable to a Client whether in respect of a claim, return of premiums, return of investment monies, refund of fees, rebate of commission or otherwise, the Representative must;

The Representative may transfer Excluded Clients on such terms and conditions agreed between the Representative and the Principal provided:

Each of TSG, the Principal and the Representative will do all things necessary to effect the transfer of the Representative's excluded clients in accordance with this clause provided that all reasonable costs associated with such transfer will be borne by the Representative.

The parties acknowledge that TSG will effect and maintain in force a professional indemnity insurance policy which provides professional indemnity insurance cover in respect of each of TSG and the Representative.

forthwith return any written Authorised Representative Authority to the Principal who shall return it to TSG.

Immediately following termination of this Agreement, TSG and the Principal must issue or cause to be issued, a letter to all Excluded Clients containing all relevant information, including but not limited to:

Any Excluded Client who fails to make an election in accordance with this clause 12 will be deemed to have elected to remain a client of the Principal and the provisions of clause 12.2(b)(ii) apply.

The content of the letter issued pursuant to clause 12.2 is at the absolute discretion of TSG and the parties acknowledge that if the termination of this Agreement is as a consequence of the Representative's failure to observe or perform any representation, covenant, warranty, undertaking, prohibition or obligation required to be observed or performed under this Agreement or the Regulatory Laws, the Representative committing a breach of any term or provision of this Agreement, the Representative breaching any term of the Authorised Representative Authority or the representative becoming subject to any banning order or disqualification pursuant to the Regulatory Laws, TSG may provide, to all clients including Excluded Clients, the detail of that failing, breach, banning order or disqualification.

The parties acknowledge that the information required to be made available pursuant to clause 12.2 will only be made available if:

Any trail income or future commission accruing in respect of Clients making an election in accordance with clause 12.2(b)(ii) or who are deemed to have made an election pursuant to clause 12.3 accrues to the new Australian Financial Services Licensee of whom the Representative will be a representative, or, if the Representative is obtaining an Australian Financial Services Licence, the Representative on and from the later of;

In the event of termination of this Agreement, the Representative will not, at any time during a period of two years from the date of termination of the agreement:

The Representative must not assign or purport to assign any of its rights under this Agreement;

A notice or other communication required or permitted to be given by a party to another must be in writing and

A notice or other communication will be taken, for the purposes of this Agreement, to have been given

Any dispute, difference of opinion or question that arises between the Principal and the Representative with regard to compliance will be referred to the TSG Compliance Manager whose decision will be binding on both parties.

Any other dispute, difference of opinion, or question that arises between the parties with respect to or arising out of this Agreement or the construction or effect thereof, such dispute, difference or question if unable to be resolved must be referred in the first instance to the Chairman of the TSG Board.

The validity, interpretation and performance of this Agreement will be governed by and construed in accordance with the law of the State of Domicile and of the Commonwealth of Australia which the parties acknowledge is the proper law of this Agreement.

Each of the parties irrevocably agrees that the courts of the State of Domicile and of the Commonwealth of Australia will have jurisdiction to hear and determine any suit, action or proceeding, and to settle any disputes, which may arise out of or in connection with this Agreement and for this purpose irrevocably submits to the jurisdiction of such courts.

The submission to this jurisdiction is not (and may not be construed so as to) limit the rights of any party to take proceedings against any other party in any other court of competent jurisdiction, nor will the taking of proceedings in any jurisdiction preclude the taking of proceedings in another jurisdiction, whether concurrently or not.

TSG and the Representative must comply with the Code of Ethics and the Rules of Professional Conduct of the Financial Planning Association of Australia Limited.

The failure or delay on the part of any party in exercising any right under this Agreement will not operate as a waiver of such rights.

If any provision of this Agreement is invalid, void or unenforceable, all other provisions which are capable of separate enforcement without regard to an invalid, void or unenforceable provision are and will continue to be of full force and effect in accordance with their terms.

This Agreement and any amendment or addition thereto may be executed by each party signing or sealing a counterpart.

This Agreement (including any Schedule hereto) may only be amended or added to in writing signed by both parties hereto.

the Representative must ensure that no advice provided in the course of conducting that business is provided on any stationery or in any manner that would lead a member of the public to assume that the advice is given in connection with the business conducted by TSG or the Principal.

In consideration of the Organisation paying the Sponsorship Fee and providing the In-Kind Support, the State will provide the Organisation with the Sponsorship Benefits.

The Organisation acknowledges and warrants to the State that it will not use, or authorise the use of, the State's Logo at any time except where, and in the manner, expressly authorised by this Agreement.

Within 28 days of the conclusion of the Term, the State must provide the Organisation with a Sponsorship Recipient Report.

Where Item 2 of Schedule 2 provides that the State is to receive an installment payment of the Sponsorship Fee or In-Kind Support upon completion of a specified Milestone and the State has not completed that Milestone or part thereof to the satisfaction of the Organisation, the Organisation will be entitled to defer payment or provision of the installment until the State has completed that Milestone or part thereof to the satisfaction of the Organisation.

The State will commit a substantial breach for the purposes of clause 12.1 if it:

A breach of any of the warranties in this clause will be considered a substantial breach for clause 12.1.

This indemnity is in addition to and will not be taken to be exclusive of any other rights the State may have against the Organisation.

The Receiving Party will not, during or after this Agreement, disclose Confidential Information directly or indirectly to any third party except:

The Receiving Party will ensure that Additional Disclosees keep the Confidential Information confidential on the terms provided in this clause.

If the Receiving Party becomes aware of a suspected or actual breach of this clause by the Receiving Party or an Additional Disclosee, the Receiving Party will immediately notify the Discloser and take reasonable steps required to prevent or stop the suspected or actual breach.

The State and the Organisation will comply with the State's Privacy Plan when dealing with any Personal Information of or related to the State under this Agreement.

The Organisation must immediately notify the State upon becoming aware of any breach of this clause.

The Organisation will ensure that records containing Personal Information are kept confidential and are not disclosed to any person other than the State except where required by law or with the State's written consent.

A Party may terminate this Agreement by giving the defaulting Party written notice if the defaulting Party commits a substantial breach of any of its obligations under this Agreement and fails to remedy the breach, to the reasonable satisfaction of the non-offending Party, within fourteen days after receiving notice requiring it to do so.

The Organisation must notify the State immediately in writing if:

All notices in connection with this Agreement must be in writing and must be delivered to the address for service of the Party set out on the first page of this Agreement by hand, prepaid post or faxed to the Party's facsimile number.

The Parties may from time to time change their respective addresses, telephone and facsimile numbers by providing the other Party with written notice.

Where the Parties agree, the Parties will seek to settle any dispute arising in connection with this Agreement by negotiation and mediation before instituting legal proceedings.

If the Parties determine that the dispute is unlikely to be resolved by negotiation, either party may refer the dispute to mediation.

For the purpose of this clause, a dispute will have arisen between the Parties when a Party gives notice to that effect to the other Party in writing.

Each Party will continue to perform this Agreement despite the existence of a dispute or any proceedings under this clause.

Any mediation costs will be borne respectively by either the State or the Organisation, whoever is deemed to be at fault.

The Initiative may be subject to rearrangement, including cancellation (in whole or part) at the sole discretion of the State in the case of unforeseen circumstances such as inclement weather or other circumstances beyond the control of the State, including those constituting Force Majeure.

In the event that the Initiative is cancelled in whole or part or ceases to operate, the State and the Organisation will meet to discuss the Organisation's entitlement to a refund of the Sponsorship Fee that is reasonable in all the circumstances, taking into consideration any monies already expended by the State.

Any amount of the Sponsorship Fee that is to be refunded by the State to the Organisation will be refunded within 14 days of the parties agreeing the amount of the Sponsorship Fee to be refunded.

In the event that the Initiative is cancelled, postponed or ceases to operate, the State's entitlements to receive any further Sponsorship Fee will cease immediately.

Nothing in this Agreement will be taken as establishing the Organisation as an employee or agent of the State without the express written authority of the State.

Except as specifically provided for in this Agreement a Party will not incur any expenditure on behalf of any other Party or have the power to bind the other Party to any contractual obligation, with the prior written approval of the other Party.

The disputants will include the mediator in all their communications to each other, including electronic communications, unless the mediator otherwise agrees.

A disputant may withdraw from the mediation immediately by giving written notice to each other disputant and the mediator.

A disputant must participate in the mediation in person or by a representative with authority to make a binding agreement settling the dispute.

If part or all of the dispute is settled a disputant may enforce the terms of settlement by judicial proceedings and adduce evidence of the making of the settlement agreement including, to the extent that it may be necessary, from the mediator and any other person participating in the mediation.

If requested by Strategic Resolution or the mediator, the disputants must lodge with Strategic Resolution from time to time reasonable amounts in advance to meet anticipated fees and expenses.

The disputants jointly and severally release, discharge and indemnify Strategic Resolution and the mediator in respect of all liability of any kind whatsoever (whether involving negligence or not) which may be alleged to arise in connection with or to result from or to relate in any way to this mediation or any subsequent act or failure to act pursuant to any settlement of the dispute.

The parties agree that no statements or comments, whether written or oral, made or used by the parties or their representatives or the mediator within the mediation shall be relied upon to found or maintain any action for defamation, libel or slander or any related complaint

Wherever reference is made in this Agreement to a covenant or agreement contained in this Agreement the same shall (subject to the provisions of this Agreement) be deemed to extend to and include all covenants, agreements, conditions and provisions implied in this Agreement by virtue of any statute.

Subject to this Agreement, each party shall treat the Information disclosed to him as private and confidential, and shall take all reasonable steps to ensure that the information is made known only to any other person to whom the other party has agreed in writing that the Information may be disclosed and whose duties and functions require a knowledge of or access to the Information.

Each party shall, to the extent permitted by law, require every person to whom he intends to disclose the information to give a written undertaking to keep the Information confidential

Either party covenants with the other party and agrees that he shall report immediately to the other party if he should learn of any use or disclosure of the information which is without the consent of that other party, or is unlawful or is in breach of this Agreement.

Either party shall return all materials to the other party in

Any communication of a notice made by a solicitor of one party shall be deemed to have been made with the authority of that party.

Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed as bringing into existence any partnership or agency between the Parties.

Any waiver of a provision of this Agreement or consent to a departure by a Party from a provision of this Agreement must be in writing and signed by the Party granting the waiver to the other Party.

All Information concerning the manufacturing (whether by "XXXX" or any other person), marketing and distribution of any product or products marketed and distributed (and manufactured if applicable) by "XXXX" and any other business activity in which "XXXX" may be involved but not to include material handling or application equipment.

All Information concerning the manufacturing (whether by "Westend" or any other person), marketing and distribution of any product or products marketed and distributed (and manufactured if applicable) by "Westend" and any other business activity in which "Westend" may be involved but not to include cementitious mix designs, formulations or any product or process relating to the production thereof.

In the event that during the course of 'Westend' addressing the client's XCLIENTX needs or requirements, 'Westend' may develop designs, concepts or procedures of a novel nature (novelties), the ownership of said (novelties) remains with 'Westend'.

The Company may also advertise and carry out interviews to assist it in sourcing suitable trainees for the Employer.

month's of the Trainee's employment with the Employer, the Employer will use its best endeavours to work with the Company to resolve any performance issues identified by the Employer.

it possesses and will continue to possess and deploy, during the term of the Agreement the requisite skills, experience, resources and infrastructure to employ the Trainee and hold all relevant authorisations required by law to employ the Trainee; and

(c) will also be available and will extend to protect the Company's related bodies corporate.

Headings will not affect the interpretation of this Agreement.

The Organisation must ensure that the Project Plan and Project Budget:

The Commonwealth will review the Project Plan and the Project Budget submitted under clause 3.1(a) and notify the Organisation that either:

On receipt of notification under clause 3.1(c)(ii), the Organisation must amend the Project Plan and the Project Budget so as to take into account the Commonwealth's comments and resubmit those documents within 20 Business Days of the date of the Commonwealth's notification for re-consideration by the Commonwealth in accordance with clause 3.1(c).

The Organisation must perform the Project in accordance with the Project Plan and the Project Budget accepted in accordance with this clause 3.1 and must not make any amendments to the Project Plan or the Project Budget (or both as the case may be) that would substantively alter:

The Organisation must deliver the Project Documents identified in Item 1.4 of Schedule 1 to the Commonwealth no later than the date specified in the Milestone Schedule.

Without limiting or affecting the Organisation's obligations under this Agreement, the Organisation must make copies of the Project Documents available to the Commonwealth for inspection and audit in accordance with clause 13.

If the Works must be varied to obtain any Approval, the Organisation must notify the Commonwealth in writing of those variations and, unless the Commonwealth otherwise consents in writing, must ensure that no variation will adversely affect the Project, the Works, the Project Aim and the use of the Works for the Designated Use throughout the Designated Use Period.

For the avoidance of doubt, to the extent of any inconsistency between the timeframes (if any) specified in the Project Plan accepted in accordance with clause 3.1 and the timeframes specified in Items 3 and 6.2 of Schedule 1, the timeframes specified in Items 3 and 6.2 of Schedule 1 will prevail.

In respect of all subcontracts the Organisation must ensure that:

If requested, the Organisation must promptly provide to the Commonwealth a copy of any subcontract.

Within 10 Business Days, or such longer time as may be agreed to in writing by the Commonwealth, having regard to the nature of the omission, fault or defect, after the receipt of a notice under clause 4.6(a)(ii), the Organisation must cause all matters specified in that notice to be rectified and must notify the Commonwealth when rectification has been effected.

The Organisation must not vary the Works in a manner described in clause 4.8(a) without the consent in writing of the Commonwealth, which will not be unreasonably withheld.

Without in any way limiting or affecting clause 6.3(a), where the Organisation does not own the Property, the Commonwealth may request the Organisation to arrange, and the Organisation must on receiving such a request arrange, for the owner of the Property to enter into a Use Agreement with the Commonwealth.

The Organisation agrees not to do anything during the Term of this Agreement that would give the owner of the Property the right to terminate the Organisation's tenure of the Property or the Organisation's right to use the Property and the Works for the purpose of the Designated Use for the Designated Use Period (or both as the case may be).

If the Organisation has not complied with clause 6.3(a) within the timeframes specified in the Milestone Schedule, the Commonwealth may in its absolute discretion terminate this Agreement for default in accordance with clause 18.1.

must only be used for the purposes of carrying out the Project and performing this Agreement;

Organisation must keep records

by submitting the requested Additional Report which complies with all requirement of the Commonwealth as set out in its direction, within 20 Business Days of receiving the Commonwealth's direction or within such longer period (if any) as the Commonwealth may allow..

If an audit, inspection, review or inquiry conducted pursuant to this clause 13 identifies a breach by the Organisation of this Agreement, the Commonwealth may recover its costs of conducting that inspection, review, audit or inquiry as a debt due from the Organisation.

must be consistent with the Commonwealth being able to conduct any act it is licensed to conduct under this Agreement.

For the purposes of this clause 17.2 Uncommitted Funds means all Funds that are, at the time of the Commonwealth's request, unspent or uncommitted, or cannot be shown to the reasonable satisfaction of the Commonwealth to have been spent or Committed in accordance with this Agreement.

Without limiting or affecting the Commonwealth's rights under this Agreement, the Commonwealth may recover all its costs associated with exercising its rights under this clause 17 (including costs associated with recovering any amount of Uncommitted Funds from the Organisation) as a debt due from the Organisation.

The Commonwealth will not be liable in any way to the Organisation, its officers, employees, agents, subcontractors and any third party in relation to any act or omission arising out of or in connection with the exercise of the Commonwealth's rights under this clause 17.

The Organisation indemnifies and will continue to indemnify the Commonwealth from and against all:

The Organisation's liability to indemnify the Commonwealth under clause 17.2(e) will be reduced proportionately to the extent that any negligent or unlawful act or omission of, or wilful misconduct by, the Commonwealth, its officers and employees contributed to the relevant loss, damage, cost, expense or liability.

Without limiting any other right the Commonwealth may have under this Agreement, any Law or in equity, including rights to recover the Funds, the Commonwealth will not be liable to pay any amount in excess of the amount of Funds remaining unpaid under this Agreement as at the date of termination.

Except as provided in this clause 18.2, the Commonwealth will not be liable to the Organisation in any way for termination of this Agreement in accordance with clause 18.1(j).

The Commonwealth may end the suspension of dealings with the Funds by written notice to the Organisation, subject to such preconditions (including variations to this Agreement) which the Commonwealth may require.

The Commonwealth will not be obliged to pay any part of the Funds to the Organisation during any period of suspension of dealings with the Funds.

represents a reasonable pre-estimate solely in respect of the loss incurred by the Commonwealth as a result of the loss of investment opportunity for, or the reasonable cost of borrowing money in place, of the amount which should have been repaid.

If the Organisation takes out a 'claims made policy', which requires all claims and any fact situation or circumstance that might result in a claim to be notified within the period of insurance, the Organisation must:

If the Organisation takes out an 'occurrence' policy, which requires the circumstances to which a claim relates to occur during the period of insurance whilst the notification of event can occur at any time subsequently, the Organisation must maintain the policy:

The Organisation must ensure that any subcontract entered into by the Organisation in relation to this Agreement places on the subcontractor, in respect of the subcontractor's activities, the same or similar obligations about insurances, as this clause 21 places on the Organisation.

The Commonwealth may at any time by notice or in writing to the Organisation, require the Organisation to give, and to arrange for its officers, employees, agents and subcontractors undertaking activities under or in connection with the performance of this Agreement to give, written undertakings, in a form required by the Commonwealth relating to the non-disclosure of Confidential Information.

In the performance of the Project (including the Works), the Organisation must comply, and must ensure that the Project Parties comply, with the Code and the Implementation Guidelines.

The Organisation must ensure that:

the appointment would breach a sanction imposed by the Minister for Employment and Workplace Relations or;

The Organisation must ensure that all subcontracts impose obligations on the subcontractors equivalent to the obligations under this clause 24.2.

The Parties agree that any dispute arising during the course of this Agreement will be dealt with as follows:

If directed and notified in writing by the Commonwealth to do so, the Organisation must cease performing the obligations of the Organisation under this Agreement which are specified in the Commonwealth's notice until the Commonwealth issues a further written notice to the Organisation directing it to resume performance of those obligations.

in a format specified by the Commonwealth, any material change in the Works that may result in a delay in the Works reaching Practical Completion on the Date for Practical Completion, and whether, if the required thresholds are met, the Organisation has met its obligations under clause 24.2 up to the date of the Report.

The type and amount of the insurance will need to be listed here.

(a) and (b) and must be made, or agreed to be made, on or before the Commonwealth notifies the Organisation that the Project Budget is acceptable to the Commonwealth.

(a) and (b) must set out details of all other contributions the Organisation will make or receive from a third party.

The insert name of other security must be in the form of insert form required.

Subject to paragraph (d) of this clause, the Commonwealth will pay:

You must provide a tax invoice to the Commonwealth's Representative as soon as practicable after:

You must use the Funding to pay for the provision of the Researcher for the performance of the Placement.

The Commonwealth may vary, withhold or cease (in whole or in part) the Funding if:

If a supply under this Agreement is subject to GST, the recipient must pay to the supplier (at the same time as the consideration for the supply is payable or is to be provided) an additional amount equal to the amount of the consideration multiplied by the applicable GST rate, provided that the supplier gives the recipient a tax invoice .

Each party will comply with the requirements and obligations regarding publicity and promotion set out in the Enterprise Connect Program Guidelines.

Without limiting clause 5(a), You must ensure that the Commonwealth's funding is acknowledged.

You must maintain the insurance policies specified in the Details.

You must provide evidence of insurance promptly on request by the Commonwealth.

You may terminate this Agreement, at any time, by giving the Commonwealth 30 days' written notice, in which case the Commonwealth is liable only for payments under clause 2(a) which have become due and payable in accordance with this Agreement before the effective date of termination.

You must notify the Commonwealth immediately if:

(b) and (c) of this clause must detail Your use of the Funding and describe the performance of the Placement and the RIB Project during the period from the Commencement Date to the date of preparation of the report.

You must give the Auditor-General and persons authorised by the Commonwealth (collectively, "those permitted") access to premises at which records are stored or work in connection with the Placement is undertaken at all reasonable times and allow those permitted to inspect and copy records in Your possession or control for purposes associated with this Agreement or any review of performance under this Agreement.

You must provide all reasonable assistance to those permitted.

The Placement Contract must include the following terms and conditions:

The Placement Contract must also:

Except where this Agreement expressly states otherwise, a party may, in its discretion, give conditionally or unconditionally or withhold any approval or consent under this Agreement.

A party may only assign its rights or novate its rights and obligations under this Agreement with the prior written consent of the other party.

This Agreement does not create a relationship of employment, agency or partnership between the parties, and You must not represent Yourself as being an officer, employee, partner or agent of the Commonwealth, or as otherwise able to bind or represent the Commonwealth.

above shall not apply to the whole or any part of the Information to the extent that it is:

must receive and hold the Confidential Information in trust and in the strictest confidence: (b) must protect the Confidential Information from disclosure and in no event take any actions causing, or fail to take actions necessary in order to prevent, any Confidential Information to lose its character as Confidential Information and (c) must not use, reproduce, distribute, disclose or otherwise disseminate the Confidential Information except in connection with the Project(s).

execution following successful Evaluation, the Receiving Party must return, and upon written confirmation of receipt, then destroy all Confidential information at the written request of the Disclosing Party as described above and set forth in Annexure A (as updated from time to time) within sixty one (61) days of the completion of Project(s).

implementation following successful Evaluation, all rights, title and interest in the following shall be the sole and exclusive property of the Disclosing Party including:

is terminated and not completed, all rights, title, interests to materials (mentioned in Clause 8.1 above) and Work Product created up to and including that point shall pass solely to the Disclosing Party; and any residual payments due to the Receiving Party shall be null and void.

year immediately following the expiration or termination of the Agreement for any reason, whether with or without good cause or for any or no cause, with or without notice, the Receiving Party will not compete with Disclosing Party and its successors and assigns, without the prior written consent of Disclosing Party.

replace or modify the Work Product or background technology, as the case may be, with functionally equivalent and conforming Work Product or background technology or (b) obtain for Disclosing Party the right to continue using the Work Product or background technology, and in all other respects use his best efforts to remedy the breach.

are not complied with and UNSW has to take measures to safeguard the health and safety of staff, the Facility or the public, then UNSW will charge the Client and the Client shall pay for the cost of taking these measures.

(a) will pay to Silent Party all fees and charges payable pursuant to these Terms and Conditions and the Hire Schedule, including, without limitation, the Hire Fee, late fees, service fees, delivery costs, collection costs and consumables;

days from the date that the Equipment is returned to Silent Party, Silent Party will refund the Bond to the Customer, less any deductions made from the Bond pursuant to clause 3.2 of these Terms and Conditions.

days of the due date, Silent Party may, without further notice to the Customer, suspend further services or its remaining obligations to the Customer under these Terms and Conditions.

6.3 and this gives rise to an Adjustment from an Adjustment Event you must provide an Adjustment Note to the School.

The parties must comply with, and must conduct the Study in accordance with:

If any issue relating to the safety of Study Subjects arises which requires a deviation from the Protocol, Alfred Health through the Principal Investigator may immediately make such a deviation without breaking any obligations under this Agreement.

notify Alfred Health of any Adverse Events (including Serious Adverse Events) that occur during the course of the Study (either at the Study Site or other study sites, including overseas sites) of which it has actual knowledge of and which may require alteration of the conduct of the Study, or which may affect the rights, interests, safety or well-being of Study Subjects.

In consideration of Alfred Health conducting the Study, Monash will pay to Alfred Health as nominated in Schedule 2 in the manner and on the basis of the prices and at the times set out in Schedule 2.

Alfred Health must ensure that all Investigational Product made available by Monash is used strictly according to the Protocol and is not used for any other purposes, unless agreed in writing by Monash.

Monash will ensure that the Principal Investigator is supplied with such quantities of the Investigational Product as will be required for the purpose of the Study.

In the event of termination, Alfred Health must promptly return (or destroy if requested by Monash, and provide evidence of such destruction) to Monash any unused Investigational Product.

Each party must ensure that any Personal Information arising from the Study regarding Study Subjects, Alfred Health Personnel or Monash Personnel, is collected, stored, used and disclosed in accordance with the Relevant Privacy Laws.

Alfred Health must give notice of any proposed Publication drafted by it or any Alfred Health Personnel involved in the conduct of the Study to Monash at least 30 days before seeking to Publish the Publication.

Monash may, within that 30-day period do either of the following:

If Monash is required to make payments to Alfred Health under clause 6, Alfred Health must acknowledge Monash's support of the Study in all Publications.

All Background Intellectual Property will remain with the contributing party.

The provisions of this clause will survive the termination or expiry of this Agreement.

Individual patient records, the Principal Investigator's research records and other information which Alfred Health must maintain for regulatory and patient care purposes shall remain the exclusive property of Alfred Health.

The parties agree that where persons involved in the Study hold an appointment at both Alfred Health and Monash ("Dual Appointees"), those persons shall be taken to be involved in the Study in their Alfred Health capacity and not in their Monash capacity.

Monash may provide, at the request of Alfred Health, Monash Personnel who are not Dual Appointees to assist with the conduct of the Study.

Monash must maintain adequate insurance with respect to its activities under this Agreement.

Prior to the commencement of the Study, Monash must provide Alfred Health with a certificate of currency of insurance issued by its brokers.

Monash must not change its insurance arrangements regarding the Study without the prior approval of Alfred Health, which approval must not be unreasonably withheld.

Either party may terminate this Agreement with 30 days prior written notice or such shorter time period as is reasonably required in the circumstances if the other party is in breach of any obligations under the Agreement or the Protocol (including without just cause to meet a timeframe) and fails to remedy such breach where it is capable of remedy within 30 days of a written notice from the terminating party specifying the breach and requiring its remedy.

In addition to clause 13.2, either party may terminate this Agreement immediately by written notice to the other party if it believes on reasonable grounds that:

In the event of early termination, Monash will cooperate with Alfred Health to ensure that Study Subjects who may be affected by termination receive adequate medical care.

Failure or delay by any party to enforce any provision of this Agreement will not be deemed to be a waiver by that party of any right in respect of any other such breach.

A party may not assign its rights or obligations under this Agreement without the prior written consent of the other party, such consent not to be unreasonably withheld.

This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, which together will comprise the same Agreement.

fulfil a different role, including but not limited to serving an increased number of users or becoming more widely accessible through an Intranet or on the Internet, the Licensee shall advise the University in writing of the change.

You must ensure that End Users do not make modifications or permit a third

You must not grant or purport to grant a sub-licence or any rights in respect

You must not dispose of or assign any of your rights under these Terms and

ArgusConnect must not assign any IPR in the Software, or its rights under

You must as soon as reasonably practical notify ArgusConnect of any actual,

You must cooperate with and provide reasonable assistance to ArgusConnect in

The licence granted under these Terms and Conditions may be terminated by you

The licence granted under these Terms and Conditions may be revoked by ArgusConnect

weeks before the Event, the Venue will provide payment to Controversy immediately following the Event.

"Commissioning Party's Contract Representative" means the person appointed by the Commissioning Party to that position pursuant to this Agreement which position shall be filled by the nominee in Item 4 of the First Schedule;

The Concept Design must be submitted to the Commissioning Party by the date specified in Item 5 of the Schedule or on such other date as the Parties shall mutually agree ("the Submission Date").

The Concept Design submitted by the Artist must in all respects comply and conform with the requirements set out and described in the Artist's Brief.

The Commissioning Party shall within 14 days after the Submission Date pay the Artist the Contract Fee set out at Item 4 of the First Schedule.

No Contract Fee shall be paid by the Commissioning Party to the Artist pursuant to Clause 4.1 if:

The Developed Concept Design must be submitted to the Commissioning Party by the date specified in Item 6 of the First Schedule, or such other date as may be mutually agreed in writing ("Submission Date for the Developed Concept Design").

In consideration for the Artist developing and amending the Concept Design, the Commissioning Party shall pay the Artist an extra design commission fee to be negotiated between the Parties and to be paid in the following instalments:

No extra design commission fee shall be paid by the Commissioning Party to the Artist pursuant to Clause 7.1 in the following circumstances:

The Artist shall not subcontract or sublet any part of the services under this Agreement without the prior written approval of the Commissioning Party which approval may be given or withheld in the absolute discretion of the Commissioning Party.

Any approval given to the Artist by the Commissioning Party to engage a subcontractor shall not relieve the Artist from any of its contractual obligations.

The Artist shall ensure that each subcontractor shall provide and maintain insurance cover of no less a standard than required by the Artist under this Agreement.

The Commissioning Party may appoint a Contract Representative who shall be nominated in Item 3 of the First Schedule to act as a point of contact and to exercise the duties, discretions and powers vested in the Commissioning Party under this Agreement.

The appointment of a Commissioning Party's Contract Representative shall not prevent the exercise of any duty, discretion or power by the Commissioning Party.

The Artist may appoint a Contract Representative (or equivalent or delegate) who shall be nominated in Item 3 of the First Schedule to fulfil the role of the Artist's Contract Representative to act as a point of contact and to exercise the duties, discretions and powers vested in the Artist under this Agreement.

The Parties acknowledge that where GST is to be applied to any payment under this Agreement the amount payable shall be increased by multiplying the GST exclusive amount by the then applicable rate of GST.

Upon payment of the relevant Contract Fee in full, title to the Concept Design and the Developed Concept Design shall vest in the Commissioning Party.

The Commissioning Party acknowledges that use, reproduction or communication of the Concept Design and/or the Developed Concept Design for any purpose other than those set out in Item 7 of the Schedule requires the prior written consent of the Artist and may be the subject of further fees and/or royalty payments on terms to be separately negotiated.

The Artist will indemnify and at all times keep the Commissioning Party fully indemnified against all claims, actions, proceedings, costs and damages whatsoever made against or incurred by the Commissioning Party in consequence of any breach of the warranties contained herein in Sub-clause 1.

If the Artist terminates this Agreement pursuant to Clause 14.2.1 then no Contract Fee shall be payable by the Commissioning Party and the Commissioning Party may recover any Contract Fee already paid to the Artist.

The Parties agree that liquidated damages for failure to submit the Concept Design and/or the Developed Concept Design by the relevant submission date will entitle the Commissioning Party to liquidated damages in the sum specified in Item 8 of the First Schedule.

Each Party shall respect the confidentiality of the other Party's Confidential Information and neither Party shall, without the other Party's written consent, disclose or divulge the other Party's Confidential Information.

If a delay or failure of a party to perform its obligations is caused or anticipated due to Force Majeure the performance of that party's obligations will be suspended.

If a delay or failure by a party to perform its obligations due to Force Majeure exceeds ninety (90) calendar days either party may immediately terminate the Contract on providing notice in writing to the other party.

the use of the Material or Data for the Research Purpose will not infringe any third party IPRs or other rights or that (2) the Recipient is able to perform the Research Purpose or to use or commercialise the research results.

the affected party will notify the other with details of the Dispute ("Dispute Notice") and, within 7 days of receiving the Dispute Notice, the Project Officers will confer and attempt to resolve the Dispute;

The Contractor must not, without the University's written consent, deal with the Intellectual Property in a manner which is inconsistent with the provisions of this Deed.

Subject to Clause 2.1 this Agreement shall come into effect on the day it is signed by both Parties.

The Agreement shall continue to the end of the Research Studies Program undertaken by the Scholarship Student or until the Scholarship Student ceases to be enrolled at QUT whichever is the earlier.

QUT will advertise the Scholarship and select the Scholarship Student in accordance with QUT policies and using a selection process that is based on merit or some other rational criteria as necessary.

QUT will provide to the Scholarship Provider through the Principal Supervisor 6 monthly technical progress reports.

QUT will supervise the Scholarship Student.

The Scholarship Provider will provide the Scholarship Student and the Principal Supervisor with access to the facilities described in Schedule 4.

The Scholarship Provider may assist QUT with the supervision of the Scholarship Student by providing a supervisor who provides assistance and guidance to the Scholarship Student as required for the Research Studies Project.

The Scholarship Provider will pay the agreed amount to QUT in accordance with the schedule of payments in Schedule 3 or such other schedule of payments as may be agreed in writing by the Parties.

The Scholarship Provider acknowledges that where the Scholarship Student fails to achieve an adequate level of performance as determined by the Principal Supervisor or where the Scholarship Student does not remain enrolled full-time in the Research Studies Program, QUT will cease payments to the Scholarship Student but will not require the Scholarship Student to repay any part of the Scholarship Amount and that QUT is not responsible for repaying to the Scholarship Provider any portion of the Scholarship Amount already paid to the Scholarship Student.

The Scholarship provider acknowledges that the Scholarship Student will be required to comply with QUT's regulations covering the Research Studies Program in which the Scholarship Student is enrolled, including progression, reporting and examination.

Where QUT becomes liable in accordance with the GST Law to pay an amount in respect of the Goods and Services Tax, then the Scholarship Amount may be increased by the amount of QUT's liability to pay GST except where the Scholarship Amount already includes an amount in respect of the QUT's liability to pay GST.

QUT will issue a Tax Invoice to the Scholarship Provider each time the Scholarship Provider makes a taxable Supply under this Agreement.

Ownership of the Intellectual Property in Existing Material which either Party shall contribute to the Research Studies Project shall remain unaffected by this Agreement.

This Agreement does not vary the ownership and shall not be deemed to grant rights of use to any Intellectual Property which either Party shall develop independently of this Agreement.

Subject to the Scholarship Student signing the QUT Intellectual Property and Confidentiality Agreement, the Intellectual Property in the New Material shall vest in and be owned by QUT with the exception of the copyright in the Scholarship Student's Thesis.

Upon the reasonable request of the Scholarship Provider, QUT will ensure that the Thesis is kept confidential for a period no longer than 12 months from the completion of the Research Studies Project.

The Scholarship Provider shall do all things necessary, including but not limited to signing any documents, applications or declarations, in order to vest in QUT full and clear title to the Intellectual Property in the New Material and to assist QUT in obtaining registration as proprietor of any such Intellectual Property rights in Australia or elsewhere.

All costs of transferring, filing, renewing and protecting the Intellectual Property in the New Material shall be met by QUT.

Subject to the terms of this Agreement, any Confidential Information disclosed by a Party ("the Disclosing Party") to the other Party ("the Receiving Party") in relation to the Research Studies Project shall be treated by the Receiving Party as secret and confidential and shall not be disclosed to any other person for 5 years from the completion of the Research Studies Project without the prior written consent of the disclosing Party which consent may be given on such terms and conditions as the Disclosing Party thinks fit.

Where a Party ("the Publishing Party") proposes a disclosure of the other Party's Confidential Information for publication or presentation, it shall submit such material to the other Party ("the Consenting Party") for review at least 30 days prior to submission for publication or presentation.

it shall provide its written consent to the publication or presentation; or

In the event that the Publishing Party shall not have received a response from the Consenting Party within fourteen (14) days after submission it shall be entitled to assume consent has been granted to use the publication or presentation in the form of the draft submitted for review.

If a dispute arises between the Parties (the "Dispute"), the Parties agree to negotiate in good faith to resolve the Dispute and will refer resolution of the Dispute to their respective chief executive officers or their nominees.

If the Dispute has not been resolved by negotiation within 30 days then either of the Parties may refer the Dispute to mediation and will do so before initiating court proceedings to resolve the Dispute.

A Dispute which is referred to mediation will be referred to the Queensland Branch of the Institute of Arbitrators and Mediators Australia (IAMA) and will be conducted in accordance with the Mediation Rules of IAMA.

Nothing in this clause will prevent a Party from seeking interlocutory relief through courts of appropriate jurisdiction.

Each Party will bear its own costs of mediation undertaken under this clause 8.

The Parties may vary any of the terms of this Agreement but any variation will be effective only if evidenced in writing signed by the Parties.

This Agreement shall be governed by and is to be construed in accordance with the laws applicable in Queensland, Australia.

If any provision of this Agreement is prohibited, void, invalid or unenforceable, the provision shall be ineffective and severed from this Agreement to the extent it is prohibited, void, invalid or unenforceable.

A Party must not assign, sub-contract, or transfer, any of its rights or obligations arising from this Agreement in whole or in part to any person without prior written consent of the other Party.

QUT shall not be under any liability to the Scholarship Provider in respect of ANY loss or damage (including consequential loss or damage) however caused, that may be suffered or incurred or that may arise directly or indirectly out of the conduct of the Research Studies Project or the use of the New Material or any other product resulting from the Research Studies Project or the failure or omission on the part of QUT to comply with its obligations under this Agreement.

The Parties exclude hereby to the extent permitted by the law all express and implied warranties in relation to the performance of this Agreement and to the performance of the Research Studies Project, in particular any warranty that the Research Studies Project will achieve any particular result.

The Scholarship Provider acknowledges that it is aware that investment in the Research Studies Project carries with it the risk of loss and the risk that the research will not result in any marketable products or commercial outcomes.

All stamp duty payable on this Agreement or any documents or instruments of transfer to be executed pursuant hereto shall be shared by the Parties.

The Scholarship Provider will reimburse at cost any additional payment made by QUT for excise and other taxes, which are attributable to the Research Studies Project and imposed upon QUT (directly or indirectly) by national or local authorities.

Nothing contained in this Agreement will be construed as implying that the relationship between the Scholarship Provider and QUT and/or the Scholarship Student is that of partners, joint venturers, or employer/employee.

No Party may act or has any authority to act as an agent of or in any way bind or commit the other Party to any obligation.

Ways in which the Organisation may use digital files provided by the Publisher

Words (including words defined in this Agreement) denoting the singular number shall include the plural and vice versa

The Participating Centre must ensure that the Principal Investigator:

The Participating Centre must indemnify the Coordinating Centre and keep the Coordinating Centre indemnified against all liabilities, costs, losses and expenses which the Coordinating Centre incurs as a result of a breach of this Agreement or the Protocol by the Participating Centre, its employees, students, medical and professional staff, agents and representatives.

In consideration for performing the Study, the Coordinating Centre will make payments to the Participating Centre in accordance with the Study budget as set out in Schedule 2.

There will be no "in advance" payments for the Study, however any fees required by individual participating centres for submission of ethics applications shall be covered by the Study budget.

the Participating Centre must not (and must ensure that the Principal Investigator does not) present or publish data derived from the Study until the complete multi-centre Study has been published in full;

Prior to or during the course of the Study, the parties may provide or may have provided one another with Confidential Information.

5.3 and 5.5, a party receiving Confidential Information shall use reasonable efforts to not disclose the Confidential Information to anyone other than as provided for in this Agreement or in the Protocol without the prior written approval of the disclosing party.

shall not apply to Confidential Information which:

The Participating Centre must protect the privacy of all patients enrolled in the Study at the Participating Centre in accordance with the Protocol and all privacy laws in force in the Participating Centre's country.

All Intellectual Property (including, without limitation, inventions, discoveries, new uses, processes, or compounds) developed jointly by the parties and any other Participating Centres (together, "Inventors") shall be owned by and is hereby assigned as the joint property of the Inventors as tenants in common.

If the parties cannot agree on their respective ownership rights under clause 7.3, this shall be resolved in accordance with the dispute resolution process set out in clause 10.

Notwithstanding ownership of Intellectual Property as set out in this clause, each party's right to publish data or other results from the Study shall be governed by the provisions of clause 5.

The Participating Centre must retain all information relating to patients and other data relating to the Study for 15 years following completion or discontinuation of the Study, or as otherwise required by law.

A party may terminate this Agreement by giving 30 days' written notice to the other party.

A party may terminate this Agreement immediately, by giving notice in writing to the other party, if any of the following occurs:

If a dispute arises under this Agreement, a party must immediately give written notice to the other party, giving details of the dispute and requesting that a meeting take place to discuss it.

If the meeting does not take place or the dispute remains unresolved 7 days after the meeting, either party to the dispute may refer the matter to mediation by giving written notice to the other party.

No waiver of any provision of this Agreement will be of any force or effect unless confirmed in writing, signed by the parties.

The invalidity or unenforceability of any provisions of this Agreement will not affect the validity or enforceability of all other provisions that are self-sustaining and capable of separate enforcement.

This Agreement can only be changed by the written agreement of the parties.

The laws of the State of Victoria, Australia will govern this Agreement.

Clauses 3, 5 and 7 will continue to apply after this Agreement ends.

Neither party will be liable for any failure or delay in the performance of its obligations under this Agreement to the extent that such failure or delay arises from any circumstances beyond its control.

The parties will, during the term of this Agreement (and, where expressly applicable, thereafter), execute and deliver all documents or instruments as may be required in order to give effect to the purpose and intent of this Agreement.

This Agreement will bind and enure for the benefit of the parties and their respective successors in title.

Where the time required to hear and determine the Dispute exceeds one month, the DRP Members and the NECA Adviser are entitled to be paid on a monthly basis and may render an invoice accordingly.

The NECA Advisor may, in his or her discretion, raise an invoice for a Code Participant based on a reasonable pre-estimate of the Fees and Expenses for the dispute, or any stage of the dispute.

The fees payable to a DRP member or the NECA Advisor may include a fee for cancellation of a hearing where a Code Participant has:

The Code Participants must pay all invoices within 30 days.

A party must pay GST on a Taxable Supply made to it under this Agreement, in addition to any Consideration (excluding GST) that is payable for that Taxable Supply.

A party must pay GST on a Taxable Supply made to it under this Agreement at the same time and in the same way as it is required to pay the Consideration for the Taxable Supply provided that a tax invoice is issued in accordance with Clause 3.3.

A party making a Taxable Supply to another party under this Agreement must issue a Tax Invoice to the other party, setting out the amount of the GST payable by that other party.

Each DRP Member must use his or her best endeavours to ensure that the Dispute Resolution Panel determines the Dispute as quickly as possible and, in any case within the time frames specified in the Code or such other times frames as are agreed in accordance with the Code.

Each Code Participant releases and indemnifies each DRP Member in relation to any loss, damage or liability that the DRP Member suffers or incurs, or would, but for this release and indemnity, suffer or incur, as a consequence of any act or omission done in good faith in connection with the Dispute.

Each DRP Member is responsible for obtaining any insurance which he or she may consider desirable in respect of his or her role and functions under this Agreement, including without limitation insurance in respect of:

Another Code Participant may become a party to this Agreement if that other Code Participant and the parties to this Agreement execute a deed of accession.

In this clause 10 "conflict of interest" means an interest of a DRP Member which may conflict, or which may reasonably be seen to conflict, with the Member's obligation to impartially resolve the dispute.

Each DRP Member must immediately advise each Code Participant and the Adviser if the DRP Member becomes aware that the DRP Member has a conflict of interest.

No party can rely on an earlier agreement, or anything said or done by another party, or by a director, officer, agent or employee of that party, before this Agreement was executed, save as permitted by law.

The parties will promptly do and perform all acts and things and execute all agreements as may from time to time be required, and at all times will act in good faith, for the purposes of or to give effect to this Agreement.

The parties must not object to the exercise of jurisdiction by the courts of the State as set out in Clause 5 of Schedule 1.

Ten may incorporate any recorded image or sound made by Ten of the Child in the Program;

You may obtain a copy of the latest version of the consumer terms or SMB terms, service description, standard pricing table (SMB) or standard pricing table (consumer) and appendices from us or on our website: www.optus.com.au/standardagreements.

Where you may be charged a fee or charge, then this fee or charge is set out in the standard pricing table (SMB) or standard pricing table (consumer).

Due to technical reasons, we are not able to guarantee that calls to '13' prefix numbers will be diverted to the nearest location for that '13' prefix number.

If you breach paragraph (a) above, we may, in addition to and without limiting our other rights under the agreement, immediately suspend or cancel the service by giving you notice.

If you do not already have an Optus SIM card for use with the service, we will give you an Optus SIM card.

We may request that you return the Optus SIM card if we issue you with a replacement Optus SIM card or we no longer supply the service to you.

You must not interfere with or impair the operation of the Optus SIM card.

You must notify us as soon as possible if the Optus SIM card we have given you is lost or stolen and we will bar outgoing calls, suspend the service or activate Optus IMEI blocking on your mobile phone (see clause 9 below).

For an additional charge, you may apply for a specific phone number.

We may be required to recover or recover and replace a phone number we have issued to you in order for us to comply with the numbering regulations.

We will give you as much notice as is reasonably practicable if we have to do this.

You may request a new phone number.

If you need a new phone number because you have received calls of a harassing nature and you reported the matter to the relevant law enforcement agency, we will supply you with a new phone number free of charge on the first two occasions.

If you stop obtaining the service and do not port the phone number, we may issue the phone number to another customer in accordance with the numbering regulations.

We will not charge you a fee for porting a phone number from another carrier or carriage service provider.

You must not cancel the service you have with the other carrier or carriage service provider before you port the phone number.

You may need a new mobile phone or you may need to have your mobile phone unlocked if you are porting between different types of mobile networks.

We may charge you a fee to port the phone number to another carrier or carriage service provider.

You must not cancel the service before you port the phone number.

You can only port the phone number, you cannot port any value added services.

You may only port a phone number for which you are the authorised customer.

If we ask you to provide proof, you must provide us with that proof within ten (10) business days.

What can we do if your mobile phone is faulty or interferes with the service?

What should you do if your mobile phone is lost or stolen?

What charges will you incur when there is a bar on calls or Optus IMEI blocking is activated?

Customers with hearing impairments who wish to access the TTY 106 emergency services number from their mobile phone should be aware that this number may not work from some blocked mobile phones.

In what other circumstances could we block your mobile phone?

If you obtain a mobile phone that we reasonably believe is lost or stolen, we may activate Optus IMEI blocking on your mobile phone without your consent, even if you are not aware it is stolen.

If you obtain the service from us under false pretences, we may activate Optus IMEI blocking on your mobile phone without your consent.

In the event that we know you have made an insurance claim when your mobile phone is lost or stolen, if Optus IMEI blocking is not already activated we will activate Optus IMEI blocking on your mobile phone.

When another person calls you, the phone number of that person may be displayed on your mobile phone if that person has not barred CLI on their phone.

For how long can we temporarily suspend the service?

The maximum length of time the service can be temporarily suspended is three months.

If you wish to extend the temporary suspension for longer than three months, you must contact us before the end of the three month period or we may reactivate or cancel the service.

We may choose to bar outgoing and/or incoming calls and/or content on your mobile phone, instead of suspending the service.

If we bar outgoing and/or incoming calls and/or content on your mobile phone, we may later suspend or cancel the service for the same or a different reason.

PATDC Group Training shall be and remain at all times the employer of any Apprentices and/or Trainees placed with the Host Employer;

PATDC Group Training will make Apprentices and/or Trainees available to the Host Employer on request, subject to availability and the Host Employer having executed this Agreement.

The Host Employer will execute a Host Placement Form in the form attached as the Schedule of this Agreement for each Apprentice or Trainee it hosts.

PATDC Group Training will Invoice the Host Employer for the Host Fee and Allowances for each Apprentice or Trainee it hosts as outlined in item 4 of the Schedule.

PATDC Group Training may vary the Lease Fee and Allowances payable by the Host Employer for each Apprentice or Trainee it hosts without notice, and retrospectively if necessary, to cover cost increases imposed on PATDC Group Training as a result of award variations, and in all other cases on seven days notice in writing;

Should PATDC Group Training deem it necessary to refer an outstanding debt for recovery action, the Host Employer will be liable for all additional costs until the outstanding amount is paid in full.

The Invoice referred to in clause 2.4 will be a Tax Invoice showing the amount of GST to be paid by the Host Employer.

must pay PATDC Group Training within the time period outlined in item 6 of the Schedule.

must check and countersign time sheets submitted by any Apprentices and/or Trainees that it hosts, and ensure submission to PATDC by the payroll cut-off time - 10:00am the Wednesday after the payroll fortnight end date;

must provide supervision to any Apprentices and/or Trainees that it hosts either by constant or general instruction in accordance with guidelines provided to them by PATDC Group Training to allow those Apprentices and/or Trainees to be trained in a safe and harassment free environment;

must nominate a person to resolve issues, provide advice and handle complaints as required by any Apprentices and/or Trainees it hosts

The contents of this Agreement and clause 10 in particular shall not be taken to have indemnified the Host Employer from any liability that may arise pursuant to the relevant State or Territory Workers' Compensation Laws.

The Host Employer will maintain public liability insurance to the amount outlined in item 7 of the Schedule against any loss, damage or injury to any third party caused by any Apprentices and/or Trainees that it hosts, and which arises out of or in the course of its hosting of the Apprentices and/or Trainees.

The Host Employer must produce on demand to PATDC Group Training evidence of insurance to be effected under this Agreement and any amendments thereto together with all renewal certificates and must pay all premiums before they became due for payment.

The Host Employer shall indemnify PATDC Group Training against any liability, loss, claim, or proceeding in respect of any injury, loss or damage whatsoever to any property, real or personal, insofar as such injury, loss or damage arises out of or in the course of it hosting any Apprentices and/or Trainees or by reason or any act (including theft) or omission of any Apprentices and/or Trainees it hosts during the period it hosts such Apprentices and/or Trainees whether such act or omission was negligent or otherwise.

The Host Employer's liability to indemnify PATDC Group Training shall be reduced proportionally to the extent that any act or omission of PATDC Group Training, its servants or agents, contributed to the loss or liability.

PATDC Group Training or the Host Employer may terminate the Agreement by giving fourteen days' notice in writing.

PATDC Group Training or the Host Employer may terminate the placement of any Apprentices and/ or Trainees immediately in the event of serious misconduct or in all other circumstances by giving fourteen day's notice in writing.

PATDC Group Training may withdraw any Apprentices and/or Trainees placed with the Host Employer immediately and without payment or penalty if:

The Host Employer must not offer direct employment to any Apprentices and/or Trainees that it hosts by way of employment, indenture or training agreement without the prior written approval of PATDC Group Training.

If the Host Employer, with the prior written approval of PATDC Group Training, offers direct employment to any Apprentices and/or Trainees it hosts by way of employment, indenture or training agreement and such Apprentice or Trainee accepts that offer, the Host Employer must pay to PATDC Group Training the sum equivalent to 10% of the gross annual salary of those Apprentices and/or Trainees.

Each party shall pay that party's own costs and expenses in respect of the negotiation, preparation, execution and delivery of this Agreement and any documents entered into pursuant to or in respect of this Agreement.

PATDC Group Training is committed to the provision of quality Group Training services and, while disputes are inevitable, PATDC Group Training management aim to deal with and ultimately resolve any grievance that may arise.

The following framework to resolution is provided/agreed to in the event that a grievance may occur:

A notice required or permitted to be given by one party to another under this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be treated as being duly given and received if it is:

The failure, delay, relaxation or indulgence on the part of a party in exercising any power, right or remedy conferred upon that party by this Agreement shall not operate as a waiver of that power, right or remedy, nor shall the exercise or any single or partial exercise of any power, right or remedy preclude any other or further exercise of such power, right or remedy or the exercise of any other power, right or remedy under this Agreement.

Any waiver of a breach of this Agreement shall be in writing signed by the party granting the waiver and shall be effective only to the extent specifically set out in that waiver.

The Consultant shall carry out the Services in accordance with the provisions contained herein.

The Consultant shall keep proper and accurate records of the Services provided by the Consultant under this Agreement in a form approved by the Company (Microsoft Office product, PDF, JPEG, AutoCAD for drawings) and without limiting the generality of the foregoing the Consultant shall ensure that the Consultant keeps a paper and Electronic Copy of all records produced by it in the course of performance of the Services.

The records kept in accordance with this Clause shall set out in respect of each week of the Term:

Within seven (7) days after the end of each month of the Term the Consultant shall deliver to the Company a paper and Electronic Copy of all records kept in accordance with this Clause for that particular month.

The parties mutually covenant and agree that all records, books, drawings, plans and other documentation and things pertaining to the Services shall be the property of the Company and the Consultant's shall forthwith upon demand provide a copy of them to the Company and the Company may in its absolute discretion provide a copy of any of those documents to any of its other consultants.

In consideration of the Consultant performing the Services under this Agreement, the Company shall pay to the Consultant the fees for those Services at the rates set out in Item 4 of the Schedule of this Agreement by monthly payments in arrears payable in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement.

At the end of each month during the Term, the Consultant shall provide the Company with:

The Company shall pay to the Consultant the monthly instalment referred to in clause 5.2 within thirty (30) days after the receipt of the monthly invoice and the record referred to in Clause 5.2 by the Company.

The Company may within thirty (30) days after the date of delivery of any record or invoice:

If the dispute referred to in clause 5.4 is with respect to a failure to carry out or properly carry out any of the Services, the Company may include in the notice an amount which it claims by way of deduction or compensation with respect to that failure.

If the parties are unable to resolve by agreement a dispute concerning a record or invoice delivered by the Consultant including any deduction or compensation referred to in the notice issued in accordance with clause 5.5, then the dispute shall be referred to arbitration under and in accordance with the provisions of Clause 20.

The Consultant must take reasonable steps to ensure that a valid tax invoice any adjustment note and any other documentation required by the A New Tax System (Goods and Services Tax) Act 1999 as amended from time to time ("GST law") to enable input tax credits to be claimed is provided to the Company as soon as reasonably practicable after the occurrence of an event that causes the GST Amount to be attributed to a particular tax period.

The Consultant shall perform the Services to that standard of care and skill to be expected of a Consultant who regularly acts in the capacity in which the Consultant is engaged and who possesses the degree of knowledge, skill and experience of a Consultant well qualified to act in that capacity in provision of the Services.

The Consultant warrants that the Consultant's Employees who may perform or be involved in performing the Services are and will be competent and have the necessary skill, training and experience to ensure that the Contractor carries out the Services in accordance with this Agreement.

Except where this Agreement otherwise provides, a direction may be given orally by the Company to the Consultant and the Company shall as soon as practicable confirm it in writing, including by way of electronic copy, to the Consultant.

The Consultant shall forthwith upon receipt of an oral direction comply with every direction given by the Company pursuant to this Agreement in accordance with the terms of that direction.

The Consultant shall provide at its own cost and expense all labour, plant, equipment, and other materials necessary for the execution and performance of the Services.

The Consultant shall ensure that all equipment used by the Consultants' Employees in performing the Services shall be fitted with a residual currency device and shall be kept in good and substantial repair, maintenance order and condition.

The Consultant shall appoint a representative of the Consultant approved by the Company (which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld) and the Consultant shall ensure that its representative contacts a nominated representative of the Company at least once per week to ascertain whether the Company has any concerns in respect of the Services provided under this Agreement.

The Consultant shall appoint at least one senior representative of the Consultant who shall meet with representatives of the Company at least once in each fortnightly period or as required by the Company to discuss any issues and follow up any action that is agreed to be taken in relation to the provision of the Services.

If the Consultant receives any complaints from the Company in respect of or related to the Services or any Additional Services the Consultant shall use its best endeavours to resolve those complaints as soon as practicable thereafter to the satisfaction of the Company in its absolute discretion and without cost to the Company.

The Consultant shall indemnify and keep indemnified the Company from and against all costs claims actions proceedings demands expenses judgments damages and losses suffered or incurred by the Company in connection with or resulting from the loss of life of or personal injury to any person or loss of or damage to any property wherever occurring arising from or out of any act, omission, event or occurrence in connection with or arising out of the performance of the Services save and except to the extent that that loss of life, personal injury and damage to property was caused or contributed to by the Company or any of the Company's officers or employees.

The Consultant shall at the Consultant's expense effect and at all times during the Term maintain with a public insurance office approved by the Company on behalf of the Company and the Consultant for their respective rights and interests:-

All moneys recovered in respect of any insurance under clause 14.1.1 above shall be forthwith expended by the Consultant in the satisfaction reinstatement or replacement of those items for which the moneys are received to the extent that those moneys are sufficient for the purpose and the Consultant shall make up any deficiency from the Consultant's own moneys.

The Consultant shall pay not later than fourteen (14) days prior to the date for payment specified in the first premium notice or demand received in respect thereof all premiums in respect of the insurances to be effected and maintained by the Consultant as herein provided and shall within seven (7) days produce all evidence of the policies and of the renewal thereof which the Company may from time to time require.

The Consultant shall not at any time during the Term do, permit or suffer to be done any act matter or thing whereby any insurances may be vitiated or rendered void or voidable or whereby the rate of premium on any insurance shall be liable to be increased.

If the Consultant defaults in the observance or performance of any term or condition of this Agreement on the part of the Consultant to be observed or performed, the Company may without derogating from any other power, right, authority or remedy, pay such money, do such things and carry out such works as may be requisite in accordance with any such term or condition and any costs so incurred by the Company together with interest thereon from and including the date any such costs were so incurred until payment shall be repaid by the Contract to the Company on demand in writing.

For the purposes of clause 17.1 the rate of interest on each day shall be two per centum (2%) per annum greater than the standard rate that would be charged on that day by the Company's bankers on any overdraft of an amount of ONE HUNDRED THOUSAND DOLLARS ($100,000.00).

the Company may deduct any moneys due and payable by or recoverable from the Consultant to the Company from the amount payable by the Company to the Consultant under Clause 5 and from any other moneys payable by the Company to the Consultant under this Agreement.

If any moneys due and payable by or recoverable from the Consultant to the Company under this Agreement exceed any amounts or moneys payable by the Company to the Consultant then the shortfall shall be a debt due and payable by the Consultant to the Company and recoverable from the Consultant.

Any dispute or disagreement between the parties to this Agreement in respect of the interpretation of this Agreement or concerning anything contained in or arising out of this Agreement as to the rights, liabilities, or duties of the parties hereunder shall be determined in accordance with the Commercial Arbitration Act 1985 by a single arbitrator agreed upon by the parties in writing, or if he is unable or unwilling to act, or failing agreement by a single arbitrator nominated at the request of either party by the President for the time being of the Law Society of Western Australia Incorporated.

For the purposes of the Commercial Arbitration Act 1985 the parties agree that each party may appear before the arbitrator personally or where the party is a body, whether corporate or unincorporated, by an officer, employee or agent of the body and each party may, if that party so chooses, be represented by a duly qualified legal practitioner or other representative.

The Company shall bear and be responsible for the costs in connection with the drafting, preparation and execution and carrying into effect of this Agreement.

A notice, consent, approval or other communication (each a 'notice') under this Agreement must be signed by or on behalf of the person giving it, addressed to the person to whom it is to be given and:

engage only competent and trustworthy employees at not less than the prescribed award rates of pay and conditions of employment, and shall personally supervise their separate and several duties;

The Consultant shall instruct each employee of the Consultant prior to his engagement that if in the lawful performance of his respective duties that employee is accidentally or inadvertently made aware of any information in any records, files, documents or correspondence, any knowledge, systems, know how, techniques, client information, marketing information, trade secrets ("Confidential Information") of the Company that Confidential Information shall be treated as being strictly confidential and shall not be disclosed, published or released to any person or persons whatsoever on the penalty of that, employee being instantly dismissed from the employment of the Consultant.

The Consultant shall arrange for all the Consultants' Employees engaged in the performance of this Agreement to complete and comply with the Company's standard Contractor/Consultant Privacy and Confidentiality Agreement, a copy of which has been provided to the Consultant contemporaneously upon the execution of this Agreement (as amended from time to time), within seven (7) days of the date of execution of this Agreement by the Consultant reasonably proposed by the Company.

It will be clear that as a result of consummating this agreement between the Corporation or identity and the consultant to this agreement that the consultant will perform all of his duties and discharge his obligation as qualified for the purpose of the authorised consultant to instruct on behalf of the consulting parties to this agreement.

The Corporation or Identity recognises that the consultant or authorised representative may contribute at their own costs from time to time for the benefit of the projects and corporations or identity success and in doing so retains the right of exclusivity to confidential and matters that are effected by the consultants or authorised representative.

The corporation or Identity realises that in default by the former, all information and files pertaining to the project will be retained by the consultant until all remuneration is received to the satisfaction of the consultant or authorised representative.

6.1 and may be used at the discretion of the consultant or authorised representative.

herewith during the life of this Agreement shall constitute a failure to comply with this Agreement for the purposes of Section 7 of this Agreement.

6.1 and 6.2 of this Section if the case may be.

As part of the process of negotiation for access, the Access Provider and Access Seeker may disclose to each other Confidential Information.

Recipient must keep information confidential

If required by law to disclose Confidential Information, the Recipient must prior to that disclosure:

If the Recipient is uncertain whether any information is Confidential Information, the Recipient must treat the information as if it were Confidential Information unless and until the Discloser agrees in writing that the information is not Confidential Information.

Recipient's rights may cease

Breach of agreement will damage Discloser

The Schedule and any document attached to it by reference or otherwise shall be deemed to be substantive parts of, and be construed in accordance with, this Deed.

This Deed may be executed in any number of counterparts.

The Institution shall ensure that spending in relation to the Fellowship occurs only within the Period of Funding.

The Institution shall, unless otherwise specified at Item D:

The amounts to be contributed by ARC for or in connection with the Fellowship shall not exceed the Funds.

Payment of the Funds will not commence until satisfactory evidence is provided to ARC that all Institutional Approvals required for research under the Fellowship have been obtained by the Institution.

month after the withdrawal or expiration of the Institutional Approval and ARC may terminate this Deed or suspend or terminate payment of the Funds for the Fellowship pursuant to clause 15.

Payment of the Funds will only commence after the Institution has notified ARC of the proposed date of commencement for the Fellowship.

The Institution shall not use the Funds for any purpose other than funding the Fellowship in respect of the Fellowship Recipient in accordance with the Application and the Approved Budget specified in Item F.

The Institution shall only use the Funds during the Period of Funding.

The Institution shall ensure that proper accounting controls are exercised over the Fellowship, including the Funds and the Co-funding (if any).

Where the Institution has not legally committed or expended the full amount of the Funds during the Period of Funding, the Institution shall, within six (6) months after the end of the Period of Funding, pay to ARC any amount not so committed or expended, unless the Institution prior to the end of the Period of Funding advises ARC of the reasons for the non-expenditure, and requests and obtains ARC's written approval for the unexpended part of the Funds to be carried forward and for the Period of Funding to be varied.

The Institution shall, by 31 March of each year, or upon written notice given by ARC or otherwise as specified in Item H, provide ARC with a written Annual Financial Report on the Fellowship, relating to the previous calendar year.

The Institution shall, by 31 March of each year or upon written notice given by ARC or otherwise as specified in Item H, provide ARC with an independent annual audit report for the Institution.

The Institution shall, within six (6) months after the Period of Funding or at other times, as reasonably requested by ARC, provide a final Financial Acquittal that complies with Australian Accounting Standards, in a form to be stipulated by ARC.

The Financial Acquittal provided by the Institution under subclause 6.3 shall be certified by the Chief Financial Officer as notified to ARC.

The Institution shall, by 31 March of each year, or upon written notice given by ARC otherwise as specified in Item H, provide ARC with a written report, in the form required by ARC, on the progress of the performance of the Fellowship relating to the period 1 January to 31 December of the preceding year.

The Institution shall, within twelve (12) months after the Period of Funding or termination of this Deed, whichever is the earlier, provide ARC with a final report, in the form required by ARC, in respect of the Fellowship.

The Institution shall provide to ARC such information relating to the Fellowship as ARC may reasonably request for the purpose of auditing and evaluating the Fellowship.

The Institution shall, if requested in writing by ARC, make available for inspection and audit (and copying if required) by officers of, or by other persons authorised by ARC, all books, accounts, receipts, printed or electronic material and other documents relating to the expenditure by the Institution of the whole or any part of the Funds, up to five (5) years after the completion of the Fellowship.

Ownership of the Fellowship Material and Intellectual Property rights in the Fellowship Material will vest in the Institution, unless specified to the contrary in Item A.

Ownership of items of equipment and animals purchased with the Funds, shall vest and remain vested in the Institution, except:

Where ownership of equipment purchased by or in the possession of the Institution is vested in ARC, the Institution shall, during the Period of Funding, retain possession of the equipment, maintain it in good condition and return it at the completion of the Fellowship in the same condition in which it was received, fair wear and tear excepted.

Where this Deed or the Fellowship under this Deed is terminated by ARC pursuant to clause 15, ARC may give such directions as ARC at its absolute discretion thinks fit concerning the transfer of ownership of the equipment and animals purchased with the Funds, and the Institution shall bring into existence, sign, execute or otherwise deal with any document which may be necessary or desirable to transfer ownership in accordance with ARC's directions.

Any purchase by the Institution of clinical electro-medical equipment must only be of a type acceptable to the relevant State or Territory biomedical engineering authority or health authority, and any modification to such equipment must meet the requirements of those authorities relating to equipment to be installed in hospitals.

The Institution must list all items of equipment with a value of $10,000 or more in an assets register, which must be available for inspection by ARC upon reasonable notice.

The assets register must record the date of purchase, purchase price, description

The Parties acknowledge that a Fellow may, at any time, make a Transfer Application to their Institution, so as to enable the Fellow to continue the conduct of the Fellowship or part of the Fellowship at a New Institution.

The Institution will notify ARC of the receipt of any Transfer Application.

ARC may, at its absolute discretion, approve the Transfer Application and may impose such conditions on that approval as ARC thinks fit.

Notwithstanding any other provision of this Deed, if ARC approves a Transfer Application, ARC may cease or reduce the Funds to the Institution by such amount as ARC, at its absolute discretion, thinks appropriate.

The Institution shall properly acknowledge the contribution of ARC to the Fellowship in any relevant correspondence, public announcement, advertising material, research reports or other material produced by, on behalf of or through the Institution in any manner relating to the Fellowship.

The Institution shall ensure that the Fellowship Recipient listed at Item B perform the activities specified in the relevant Application in relation to the Fellowship and in accordance with this Deed.

Where a Fellowship Recipient is unable to perform, or to continue to perform, the activities in relation to a Fellowship, the Institution shall notify ARC immediately.

ARC may request the Institution to make available to ARC the services of Fellowship Recipients for the purposes of reviewing or assessing applications made under ARC Funding Schemes during the Period of Funding, and the Institution will use its best endeavours to facilitate compliance by the Fellowship Recipient.

ARC may, at any time by written notice, suspend or defer any payment of the Funds or terminate this Deed or reduce the scope of a Fellowship.

Where ARC terminates a Fellowship or this Deed under clause 15.1, ARC shall not be obliged to pay to the Institution any outstanding amount of the Funds.

If at any time ARC is reasonably satisfied that any part of the Funds has been expended or committed by the Institution other than in accordance with this Deed, ARC may recover that amount as a debt due to ARC.

ARC may, following the submission of any report, or following the time that the Financial Acquittal was due to be submitted under subclause 6.3, whichever is the earlier, recover from the Institution as a debt due to ARC any part of the Funds which:

The Institution shall indemnify, at all times, ARC, its officers, employees and agents from and against all action, claims, demands, costs and expenses (including the cost of defending or settling any action, claim or demand) made, sustained, brought or prosecuted in any manner based upon, occasioned by, or attributable to any loss or damage to any person, or loss or damage to property which may arise from or be a consequence of the performance of the Fellowship.

The Institution's liability to indemnify ARC under clause 17.1 will reduce proportionately to the extent that any negligent or other tortious act or omission of ARC contributed to the relevant liability, loss or damage, or loss or expense.

Unless ARC otherwise agrees, the Institution must, for so long as any obligations remain in connection with this Deed:

The Institution acknowledges that ARC may be required to provide information in relation to this Funding or this Deed, as required by the operation of any law, judicial or parliamentary body or government agency.

The Institution shall ensure that in carrying out its functions and expending the Funds, it complies with all relevant Commonwealth, State and local government laws, regulations and by-laws and including, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, all those relating to employment terms and conditions.

If during the term of this Deed, a conflict of interest, or risk of a conflict of interest, or an apparent conflict of interest ('conflict, risk or apparent conflict') arises in respect of the Institution, or an employee or agent of the Institution, the Institution must immediately notify ARC in writing of that conflict, risk or apparent conflict.

If a conflict, risk or apparent conflict is experienced by the Institution, or an employee or agent of the Institution, the Institution must take such steps as ARC may reasonably require to resolve or otherwise deal with that conflict, risk or apparent conflict.

If the Institution fails to notify ARC under this clause 22, or is unable or unwilling to resolve or deal with the conflict, risk or apparent conflict as required, ARC may terminate this Deed in accordance with clause 15 (Termination and Suspension).

Notwithstanding the existence of a dispute, the Institution must continue to perform its obligations under this Deed.

A notice, request or other communication will be deemed to be received:

The Institution shall notify ARC in writing of the name and title of the Responsible Officer.

The Responsible Officer shall supply all necessary information reasonably requested by ARC in relation to the purposes for which the Funds are used.

The Institution shall not without the written consent of ARC assign, mortgage, charge or encumber this Deed or any benefit, moneys or rights obtained or to be obtained or obligation under this Deed.

The Executive Officer may exercise, on behalf of ARC, any of the powers conferred upon ARC by this Deed.

The provisions of clauses 2.2(f), 5, 6, 7.1, 9, 10.4, 11.5, 11.6, 12, 14, 15.2, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29 and 30 will survive the expiration or earlier termination of this Deed.

Except as provided by this clause, all taxes, duties and government charges imposed or levied in Australia or overseas in connection with the performance of this Deed shall be borne by the Institution.

If a supply made by the Institution under this Deed is a taxable supply under the GST Act, the Institution may, by notice in writing to ARC, increase the Original Funds Payable by ARC by the amount of GST that is payable by the Institution on that part of the Original Funds Payable which relates to the taxable supply as if that part of the Original Funds Payable is the value of the supply for the purposes of the GST Act.

both Governments acknowledge that access to electronic and hard copy data (both existing and new data created as part of the RFA process) will be a critical element in the undertaking of a data audit and comprehensive regional assessments within the agreed timeframe.

both Governments agree that each can utilise data owned by the other for the purposes of the RFAs and their respective statutory obligations relating to the RFAs.

The parties agree that all fees, charges and payments received by PARTNER from Client as a) the royalty fee; b) as part of the Service fee; or c) as revenue share from mobile phone operator(s) and/or sponsors and/or other relevant media or Clients shall be shared BAREFOOT <<50%>> and PARTNER <<50%>> plus any fees listed under Revenue Share Business Model stated in Appendix 4.

3.3 or Appendix 4 shall fall within the scope of Appendix 2 which may be updated on a case-by-case basis where mutually agreed by the parties.

The Parties acknowledge that all Service delivery terms shall be mutually agreed between the Parties before making commercial arrangements with a Client.

In case of revenue sharing agreement, revenue to be paid to BAREFOOT shall be calculated based on the total funds received from billed volume, based on the monthly report coming from each Client.

All fees and payment shall be paid in <<AGREED CURRENCY>>.

PARTNER shall take all steps to secure and maintain protection of the Products as permitted pursuant to copyright and equivalent or similar laws through the Territory.

This Agreement shall become effective on the date of execution of this Agreement, and shall continue in force for a period of twelve (12) months ("Initial Term").

For a period of eighteen (18) months after the agreement termination, any BAREFOOT products/services sale to PARTNER's Client will be subject to the revenue share fee as stated in Clause 3.3.

Either party may by written notice terminate this Agreement with immediate effect if the other party has committed a material breach of this Agreement, and not rectified the same within a time which shall be reasonable taking into account previous technical and other relevant conditions after receipt of a written request specifying the breach from the other party.

From the date of termination of this agreement as described in Clauses 5.1 and 5.3, the parties shall account for all outstanding monies due within 15 working days after receiving payment from mobile network operators or Clients.

After the termination of this Agreement, the Parties will refrain from further direct or indirect use of the information obtained from the other Party.

Except for termination due to the breach of this Agreement by PARTNER, PARTNER may complete transactions that have already been initiated with Clients and the applicable terms and conditions of this Agreement shall be extended for the time necessary to complete such transactions.

All disputes between the Parties will be resolved in accordance with this Agreement.

The Parties will use all reasonable measures to comply with the dates in this Agreement and acknowledge that any date may be altered by agreement of the Ministerial Council subject to clauses 13.9 and 13.10.

The national licensing system will include relevant business and occupational licences in the following initial occupational areas:

Where an occupational area covered by clause 3.5 is being considered or included under another national reform initiative with the potential to encompass occupational licensing, the Ministerial Council can determine that it is appropriate that responsibility for that occupational area be transferred from the national licensing system to that reform initiative.

The Parties agree that the national licensing system will not compromise Queensland's existing home warranty insurance scheme.

This Agreement will not require a Party to this Agreement to adopt national licensing policies for any occupational area or sub group, until agreed by the Ministerial Council.

In addition to complying with COAG's Principles of Best Practice Regulation, the system will conform with the following principles, to be reflected in the legislation:

the national licensing system will facilitate a consistent skill base for licensed occupational areas by:

The legislation will provide that a Ministerial Council, which will comprise a Commonwealth Minister and the Ministers nominated by each State and Territory, be responsible for the national licensing system.

The Ministerial Council, in its capacity as the Council responsible for the national licensing system, will meet from time to time as required and will comply with COAG's agreed Broad Protocols and General Principles for the Operation of Ministerial Councils.

An agreement by the Ministerial Council for the purpose of the implementation phase relating to this system will be by consensus.

Where the Ministerial Council is unable to achieve consensus on the inclusion of a new occupational area or sub-group of an occupational area, or the specific national licence policy for an occupational area or sub-group, the majority of jurisdictions may agree to include a new occupational area or sub-group, or introduce a national licence policy, if the Ministerial Council approves the remaining jurisdictions deferring national licensing in this area.

Where the Ministerial Council has approved a jurisdiction deferring the inclusion of a new occupational area or sub-group of an occupational area, or the specific national licence policy, as provided at clause 5.5, the Ministerial Council must review its approval every 12 months while the approval is operative.

Any of the Parties to this agreement may, as a result of the findings of a Coronial Inquiry or similar, or in response to jurisdiction or industry specific issues, request that the national licence policy be amended as a result of such findings or circumstances.

If the Ministerial Council does not agree to the requested change to national licence policy under the process described in clause 5.7, within six months from the date that a jurisdiction requests an amendment to the national licence policy, the jurisdiction can then make a decision on whether it will proceed with the change unilaterally.

Any policy introduced by a jurisdiction as a result of the process described in clause 5.8 will not be nationally recognised under the national licensing system.

The Parliamentary Counsel's Committee will be responsible for the drafting of the national licensing system legislation.

The structure and functions of the national system will be set out in the legislation establishing the system.

Victoria will host the substantive legislation to give effect to the national system, which will be subject to the approval of the Ministerial Council.

The States of New South Wales, Queensland, Western Australia, South Australia and Tasmania and the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory will, following passage of the Victorian legislation, enact legislation in their jurisdictions applying the Victorian legislation as a law of those jurisdictions, so as to permit the system to be established in accordance with the schedule provided at Attachment A.

Each of the States and Territories will repeal the existing licensing provisions in legislation which covers the occupational areas that are subject to the new national licensing system so as to permit the system to operate in accordance with the schedule at Attachment A.

Each of the Parties will repeal, amend or modify any other legislation which is inconsistent with or alters the effect of the legislation to establish the national licensing system so as to permit the system to operate in accordance with the schedule at Attachment A.

A Party to this Agreement will not submit a Bill or Bills to its legislature which would be inconsistent with, or alter the effect of, the legislation to implement the national licensing system or this Agreement.

At a minimum the national licensing system Act will provide for:

The Ministerial Council will report to COAG in accordance with any requirements established by this Agreement or by COAG guidelines and protocols, or at least annually.

During the implementation phase the Chief Executive Officer of the national licensing body, and once the national licensing board is appointed the board, will submit six monthly reports to the Ministerial Council advising of the progress of the national licensing system.

If the national licensing body becomes aware that a Party to this Agreement is acting inconsistently with a provision of this Agreement, the national licensing board must provide a report to the Ministerial Council outlining the inconsistency.

States and Territories will collect licensing fees under the national licensing system.

It is not intended that a Party to this Agreement would be significantly disadvantaged compared to current arrangements and the fees for national licences will be allocated accordingly.

A Party to this Agreement will not be significantly disadvantaged compared to current arrangements for the revenue associated with trust funds for property agents and conveyancers.

Any of the Parties to this Agreement may propose amendments to the national licensing system or legislation by communicating the proposed amendments to the Ministerial Council and the justification for seeking them.

The Ministerial Council will consider any proposed amendments, in accordance with the objectives and principles as specified in clauses 4.1 and 4.2, and agree to such amendments as it sees fit.

If proposed amendments would substantially alter the objectives of the national licensing system any Ministerial Council decision to approve the proposed amendments must be by consensus.

If the amendment is passed through the Victorian Parliament, legislation of the States of New South Wales, Queensland, Western Australia, South Australia, and Tasmania and the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory will incorporate the changes by applying the amendment as a law of those jurisdictions.

Any amendment to this Agreement will be made in writing and executed by all Parties, and will include the date on which the amendment will come into force.

The Ministerial Council will initiate an independent public review of the operation of the national licensing system, including the legislation establishing the system, in accordance with the guidelines established by the Office of Best Practice Regulation, not earlier than five years from the commencement of the national licensing system and every 10 years thereafter.

The Ministerial Council will set the Terms of Reference for a review under clause 10.1.

The Parties agree that withdrawal from the system will be a measure of last resort.

A Party that proposes to withdraw from this Agreement will notify each of the other Parties by giving at least 12 months written notice.

In the event of withdrawal from this Agreement by any one of the Parties, this Agreement will be rendered null and void except as otherwise agreed by the Ministerial Council.

In circumstances where a Party fails to comply with any of its obligations under this Agreement, the Ministerial Council shall consider whether the Party was not acting in good faith and to what extent, if any, this Agreement shall be rendered null and void.

In circumstances where this Agreement is rendered null and void, responsibility for the licensing of the occupations covered by the system will revert to individual States and Territories.

This Agreement may be terminated at any time by agreement in writing by all of the Parties.

A national licensing steering committee will be senior officers, nominated by First Minister's departments, and chaired by the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet, to advise the Ministerial Council on the implementation of the national licensing system and any required interim arrangements until such time as the national licensing board is operational, or as determined by the Ministerial Council.

As part of the implementation phase the steering committee and national licensing body must consult and take into account the views of relevant stakeholders in occupational areas including unions and employer groups, professional associations, consumer advocacy organisations, regulators, insurance peak bodies (where relevant) and the national training system on the development of the national licensing system.

Prior to commencement of the national licensing legislation interim advisory committees for each occupational area will be established to provide advice to the project team.

Where a national licensing steering committee meeting plans to consider licensing policy for a particular occupation, the steering committee will invite a representative of the interim advisory committee for that occupation to attend the steering committee meeting to discuss that item.

Each interim advisory committee established will comprise one chair and an adequate number of general members to ensure the committee includes the range of expertise required to fulfil its function for an occupational area.

The interim advisory committee must comprise of expertise relevant to an occupational area across the fields of regulation, industry operations and practices (from both a union and employer perspective) safety, consumer advocacy, insurance (where relevant) and training.

The Chair of the Steering Committee will seek nominations for membership of interim advisory committees from relevant peak bodies, nationally based where possible, (unions, employer bodies and professional associations), consumer advocacy organisations, regulators, peak insurance bodies (where relevant) and national training system.

The Parties may make amendments by agreement to the indicative implementation timetable at Attachment A, provided that the amendments are consistent with the Implementation Plan of the National Partnership Agreement To Deliver A Seamless National Economy.

Your application for a Domain Name must be in the form prescribed under the Published Policies.

You accept that even if we have accepted and approved your Domain Name application, the application may still be rejected by the Registry Operator in performing its final integrity checks.

Your Domain Name Licence will be effective for a two year period, once:

Your Domain Name Licence may be renewed every two years, as long as you:

You may cancel your Domain Name Licence at any time by notifying us in writing, but this does not entitle to any refund.

We may cancel your Domain Name Licence if you breach any provision of this document.

We will report you and/or your company directors to appropriate credit reference agencies should you fail to pay applicable fees, and any such fees become more then 60 days past due.

You accept that if any of the above statements is found to be incorrect, then either we or auDA may cancel your Domain Name Licence.

Once your Domain Name application is accepted and approved, we will cause your Domain Name details to be entered in the domain names registry.

We will endeavour to stay within the terms of our privacy policy as published from time to time on the Enetica Web Site.

We will give you immediate notice if:

auDA may post notice of:

You must not, directly or indirectly, through registration or use of the Domain Name or otherwise:

You must not:

We will ensure that you can easily transfer your Domain Name registration to another registrar in accordance with the Published Policies.

If our registrar agreement with auDA is terminated, we will not charge you any fee for the transfer of the registered Domain Name to another registrar.

You must not pursue any claim against auDA or against us, and neither auDA nor we are liable to you for any direct, indirect, special, punitive, exemplary or consequential damages, including but not limited to damages resulting from loss of use, lost profits, lost business revenue or third parties damages, arising from any breach by us of our obligations under this document, or under our registrar agreement with auDA.

Nothing in this document is to be read as excluding, restricting or modifying the application of any legislation which by law cannot be excluded, restricted or modified.

Enetica will not be liable to the Registrant for any loss or damage whatsoever suffered, or that may be suffered (including but not limited to direct, economic and consequential loss) as a result of any act or omission by Enetica whether negligent or otherwise, in the performance of any duty, obligation or function under this Agreement or in any way arising out of its being party to this Agreement.

that the management of the Project and the Funding will at all times be in accordance with the Discovery Projects Funding Agreement and the Funding Rules;

week of delivery of the semen a fee of $5.50 (including GST) per day will be charged until the tank is returned.

days the purchaser shall be entitled to re-breed the mare until the mare delivers a foal that stands and nurses to a maximum period of seven (7) days.

days of the times for payment set out in item 7, the seller may, without prejudice to any other right the sell may have under this agreement or at law, give written notice (the notice) requiring the purchaser to remedy the default within seven (7) days.

To the extent permitted by applicable law, and subject to clause 3(b), the Volunteer unconditionally and irrevocably consents to the following acts or omissions by the Redfern Legal Centre or its licensees that would, but for this consent, infringe the Volunteer's Moral Rights:

Except in relation to Fact Sheets, the Redfern Legal Centre must use its best endeavours to ensure that the Volunteer is attributed as the author of literary works created by the Volunteer and published by the Redfern Legal Centre Centre.

Despite any confidentiality or intellectual property right subsisting in this Agreement or a schedule, appendix, annexure or attachment to it, either party may publish all or any part of it without reference to the other.

Crown may terminate without showing cause after notice

Crown may terminate for insolvency

Any proceedings issued against the Crown under, or about, this Agreement, must be instituted either:

If a dispute arises between the parties under this Agreement (except in the case of action required to be taken under statute, or where an urgent interim determination is sought) the parties must refer the matter for resolution by a person of appropriate qualifications and experience agreed between them.

If the parties can't agree about the person to be appointed, then the matter in dispute must be determined under the provisions of the Commercial Arbitration Act 1986.

The Incoming Party agrees that, subject to this Novation Agreement, it will be bound by the terms and conditions of the OR Agreement as if it had been a party to the OR Agreement.

The Outgoing Party shall remain liable to the Authority for all liabilities which flow from any act or omission of the Outgoing Party in the performance of its functions under the OR Agreement up to the Start Date (regardless of when that liability actually arises).

The Outgoing Party shall indemnify the Incoming Party from and against any costs, claims or demands made by any person, for or in respect of the failure of the Outgoing Party to observe and perform its obligations under the OR Agreement up to the Start Date.

Call out provisions apply to Flight Attendants and will be at the earliest possible time but not later than 120 minutes.

Time required for duty, including deadhead travel before and after each daily flight sequences, shall be not less than 45 minutes prior to departure for sign-on purposes and not less than 15 minutes after engine shut down for sign-off purposes.

Time spent in deadhead flying and associated ground time for the purpose of operating a later service, or time spent in deadhead flying and associated ground time for the purpose of returning to base after operating a service terminating short of base provided that credit under this paragraph shall cease if the Flight Attendant released for an overnight stop elects to return by a later service.

Consistent with the commitments contained within this clause, the Company will provide direct pay roll deductions for Association fees, without administration costs to the Flight Attendant or the Association.

This Agreement shall operate on and from certification until 31 January 2009.

For the purposes of this Agreement where reference is made to the term "Flight Attendant" it is understood and agreed that this shall mean a Casual Flight Attendant trained and qualified to an operational standard.

This Agreement is to be read in conjunction and interpreted with the Flight Attendant's appointment conditions and to the extent that there is any inconsistency between this Agreement and the appointment conditions, this Agreement shall prevail.

Nothing in this clause shall derogate the Company's right to terminate a Flight Attendant's daily hire or otherwise without notice in circumstances where the Company is not prepared to allow the Flight Attendant to continue to operate on that day.

Any claim made by any member of the public, passenger or other person upon the Flight Attendant's estate as a result of any accident or happening, caused by the Flight Attendant when duly performing nominated duty, whether efficiently or, as may be subsequently determined, negligently, shall be accepted as a claim made against the client airline.

Notwithstanding anything herein contained to the contrary, the client airline shall have the right to request that a Flight Attendant not be offered work by the Company during an investigation into an accident or incident in which that Flight Attendant may have been involved.

Accordingly, in fulfilling their obligations under the dispute avoidance and settling clause, the respondents must make every endeavour to ensure that neither the Agreement provisions nor their operation are directly or indirectly discriminatory in their effects.

To meet the needs of the enterprise, the Company and the Association may agree upon the manner in which a particular clause of this Agreement is to operate at the workplace level in relation to particular employees.

Without limiting the scope of clause 10.1, during the life of this Agreement the parties may review the administrative arrangements and conditions associated with flight attendant contactability and availability and make any required changes in accordance with the terms of this Facilitative Provision.

In the event of a dispute, claim or grievance arising in the workplace the procedure will be as follows:-

(s) and the flight attendant's supervisor will meet and confer on the matter.

may be represented by another flight attendant and/or a representative of the Association to act on their behalf at any stage of these procedures.

the Company will investigate and reply to the flight attendant(s) and/or their representative within 72 hours.

If the Company is investigating an accident or incident in which the flight attendant(s) is involved, and where the investigation involves a member of the Association, the Association has the right to nominate a representative who may act as an observer and be present at all stages of the Company's investigation.

Until the matter is determined, work shall continue as instructed by the Company.

The parties will at all times confer in good faith and without undue delay, and neither party will be prejudiced as to the settlement of the matter by the continuance of work.

A Flight Attendant shall be required to perform duties within the limits of the Flight Attendant's skills, competence and training that may be peripheral or incidental to the work of a Flight Attendant.

Payment of monies shall occur once the client Airline has approved and processed necessary data and contractual requirements.

A Flight Attendant operating as Team Leader (previously called second-in-charge) on a wide-bodied aircraft shall be paid an allowance at the rate set out in clause 39 of this Agreement.

A Flight Attendant operating as Team Leader (previously called second-in-charge) a narrow-bodied jet aircraft shall be paid an allowance at the rate set out in clause 39 of this Agreement.

In addition to a Flight Attendant's base hourly rate, overtime shall accrue on a daily basis as follows:

Overtime on Regional Duty will apply for all time worked in excess of 12 hours at the rates set out in clause 39 (Rate B).

A Flight Attendant must be paid a penalty on 'domestic duty' if the Flight Attendant has worked a daily duty period of six hours or more and has not been allowed a daily duty meal break of twenty minutes.

The administrative arrangements to be followed by a Flight Attendant to claim this penalty payment will be advised by the Company from time to time.

The penalty paid to the Flight Attendant must be calculated as follows:

Uniforms worn by Flight Attendants shall be provided on an adequate scale and replaced from time to time as may be required as a result of fair wear and tear on duty.

20.2 of Clause 20 - Confirmed Duty Travel) and shall keep the same in good order and condition, and shall at their own cost replace the same if such replacement shall become necessary other than as a result of fair wear and tear whilst on or travelling to or from duty.

Where a particular type of overcoat or handbag is prescribed by the client airline, Flight Attendants shall be provided with them.

Flight Attendants away from home base on flight duty, or other duty or when deadheading will be provided with accommodation and with transport to the hotel accommodation provided.

In addition to the base hourly rate a Flight Attendant will receive an amount of daily travel allowance, calculated from sign-on to sign off at home base at the rate set out in clause 39.

Where a Flight Attendant advises upon notification of duty of their intention not to use accommodation arranged in accordance with sub clause 18.1 herein, the Flight Attendant shall receive an accommodation in lieu allowance at the rate set out in clause 39 for each occasion arranged accommodation is cancelled.

Where deadheading is associated with blocked duty, a Flight Attendant will be provided with pre-booked travel in economy class upgradeable to Business Class.

A Flight Attendant deadheading on the last sector before sign-off or whose deadheading is the sole duty for the day may travel out of uniform.

A Flight Attendant while on duty shall not deadhead travel on the flight deck.

A Flight Attendant will be paid a language allowance at the rate set out in clause 39 where the Flight Attendant demonstrates the required level of proficiency in a language or languages specified by the client airline.

A Flight Attendant who is engaged as a language speaker will be allocated to priority language patterns where possible and will be required to maintain and uphold his/her level of language skills to the approved standard.

The language allowance rate may be reviewed by the parties during the life of this Agreement.

A Flight Attendant who is unable to perform a pre-allocated duty or meet his/her obligations in relation to an AV Day or an AV Span must notify Qantas Operations and the Company as soon as possible to allow for a replacement crewmember to be called out or allocated.

A medical certificate may also be required where a Flight Attendant is not able to meet availability requirements, or is unavailable to be allocated duty due to illness;

The Company may waive the requirement for a Medical Certificate in particular circumstances.

Should a Flight Attendant require medical attention whilst on duty, the Company shall use their best endeavours to arrange such medical attention.

A Flight Attendant who is unable to perform an allocated duty due to illness or injury away from home base must immediately advise Qantas Operations and the Company and attend a Qantas approved Medical Practitioner.

If a Flight Attendant becomes ill whilst on duty away from base and is unable to perform further duties, duty hour payment will cease from that time (provided a three hour minimum payment for a duty shall apply).and the Flight Attendant shall be passengered by air to their base.

If a Flight Attendant is unable to travel by air, the method of travel used to return a Flight Attendant on sick leave to home base shall be consistent with the Flight Attendant's state of health and shall be the best available standard including first class sleeping facilities where available.

The Company and the Association must agree to travel arrangements under 23.3.2.

In circumstances where a Flight Attendant requires hospitalisation prior to returning to home base then Duty hour and DTA payment will cease.

Reimbursement of reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the flight attendant due to illness away from home base will be considered by the Company.

A Flight Attendant shall not be required to operate services into hostile or warlike areas, but may volunteer for such operations.

Volunteers shall be provided with insurance coverage no less favourable than applying to Flight Attendants in the client airline.

A Flight Attendant who is posted missing or interned whilst on duty as a result of hostile action by a foreign nation whether war is declared or not, shall be entitled to the same benefits as a Flight Attendant of the client airline.

Where a Flight Attendant is entitled to pay in accordance with sub clause 25.1 herein it shall be paid to such person as is nominated by the Flight Attendant, and failing such nomination it shall be determined by the Company.

Flight Attendants will be entitled to utilize lounge facilities as available at airports.

Unpaid leave of absence may be granted by the Company in special circumstances for a limited period.

Flight Attendants shall be provided to the client airline on a daily hire, which can include a multi day sequence.

Flight Attendants shall have the same daily duty hour limitations/restrictions and rest requirements as a Flight Attendant in the client airline as varied from time to time including any special arrangements agreed between the client airline and the Association in relation to those limitations, restrictions or requirements.

The Company shall offer the employee engagements on a casual basis as and when required by the Company.

A Flight Attendant's availability obligations, in accordance with Schedule 1 of this Agreement, will be advised in writing by the Company on the Flight Attendant's initial engagement or when subsequent changes to the Flight Attendant's category (that is category A, B or C as detailed in Schedule 1) are agreed between the Company and the Flight Attendant.

The Flight Attendant designated base will be contained in the Flight Attendants letter of offer.

The client airline will provide day to day direction in relation to the specific duties of the Employee.

The Employee shall diligently and punctually perform all duties and tasks as required by the Company or its clients from time to time.

The Employee must comply with Company policies and procedures as varied and advised from time to time, including compliance with policies issues by client airlines.

A Flight Attendant shall advise the Company in writing of his/her current residential address, email address and contact mobile telephone number.

A Flight Attendant having been allocated and accepted a duty, shall be required to diligently and punctually perform the duty.

MAM Casual Flight Attendants who are on a Non Available Day can be contacted to receive a duty for a subsequent Available Day.

In a case where a duty is allocated on an advised Available Day, and declined by a MAM Casual Flight Attendant, then the individual may be withdrawn from further allocation of duties until MAM Aviation Services management has had communication and a satisfactory explanation from the individual Flight Attendant.

A Flight Attendant allocated an AV Span must contact Qantas Operations between 1700 and 2000 hours the day prior to the AV Span as an alternative duty may be available.

A Flight Attendant on AV Span must be contactable from the earlier of

The Company and Qantas Operations shall assign duties as required to meet Qantas operational requirements.

During the term of this Agreement the parties will examine options to facilitate flight attendants swapping duties.

Exchange of flights between Flight Attendants may be arranged by the Company when required because of duty hours or rest period limitations or misconnections at a port where Flight Attendants are based or not based.

In determining Flight Attendants to be involved in an exchange, the Company will select those Flight Attendants who can still operate their next flight/s, or, if no Flight Attendants are available under this provision, then the Flight Attendants who will incur the least disruption to their next flight/s, irrespective of the Flight Attendant's home base.

Notwithstanding the provisions of this Agreement, a Flight Attendant away from home base who is scheduled to deadhead to home base may be assigned to operate any one way flight back to home base.

Any specific up-line reallocation that applies to the crew of the client airline under a dispensation from the Association will also apply to flight attendants under this Agreement.

A Flight Attendant, having signed on for a duty may be assigned an additional duty on the same day/s to meet unforeseen circumstances in the client airline.

Flight Attendants shall be provided with the same meals as Flight Attendants employed by the client airlines on the same services.

Superannuation contributions will be made by the Company on behalf of Flight Attendants to reflect legislative requirements.

It is a term of this Agreement that the superannuation contributions will be made to Superannuation Trust of Australia (STA) or other accredited superannuation plans as determined by the Company.

Monies shall be paid in arrears fortnightly by electronic transfer.

"specific dates" of required availability for the following calendar month will be advised to MAM Casual Flight Attendants via the MAM website www.mam.net.au.

Prior to expiration of the Term, the parties may agree in writing to extend the Term.

Intellectual Property first created or developed as a result of performance of this agreement ("New IP") shall be owned as follows:

If a party proposes to commercialise or exploit New IP or to sub-licence New IP for commercial purposes then the parties must consult and reach a separate agreement with respect to commercialisation, including the sharing of royalties.

Rights and obligations of parties under this clause shall survive expiration or earlier termination of this agreement.

If an Event of Default occurs in respect of a defaulting party, then the other party may in its discretion terminate this agreement by written notification to the defaulting party.

A party ("the indemnifying party") indemnifies and will keep indemnified the other party ("the indemnified party") and its officers, employees, agents, contractors and consultants from and against all actions, claims, proceedings or demands (including those brought by third parties) which may be brought against it or them, whether on their own or jointly with the indemnifying party in respect of any loss, death, injury, illness, damages, costs or expenses (but excluding consequential financial loss) where caused by any unlawful or negligent act of the indemnifying party, its employees, agents, sub-contractors or consultants arising from the indemnifying party's exercise of its rights or obligations under this agreement or from any other loss which may arise from or as a result of any breach of the terms of this agreement by the indemnifying party, its employees, agents, sub-contractors or consultants.

The indemnifying party's obligation to indemnify the indemnified party and its officers, employees and agents set out in sub-clause 2 is a continuing obligation separate and independent from the indemnifying party's other obligations and will survive expiration or earlier termination of this agreement.

If a party becomes aware of any matter likely to constitute a Force Majeure Event affecting its obligations under this agreement, it must within 5 business days of the occurrence of the Force Majeure Event give to the other party a notice containing full particulars, including the likely effect of the Force Majeure Event on the relevant obligations ("suspension notice").

Where a party has provided a suspension notice, the non-financial obligations of that party under this agreement shall be suspended, to the extent they are effected by the Force Majeure Event, until the cessation of the Force Majeure Event provided however that the maximum periods of suspension of obligations under this clause shall be 6 months per event from the date of occurrence of the relevant Force Majeure Event.

The Company must effect and maintain at all times during the Term the following insurances:

AEMO will provide the NEMDE Solver Service to the NEMDE Solver User in accordance with this Agreement.

AEMO may vary the NEMDE Solver Service and this Agreement by giving prior notice of the variation to the NEMDE Solver User.

Promptly after the Commencement Date, AEMO will provide the NEMDE Solver User with a configured directory on an AEMO file share.

The NEMDE Solver User must comply with any security policy or procedure issued to the NEMDE Solver User by AEMO.

The NEMDE Solver User must ensure that, at all times, there is a Systems Contact to interact with AEMO on the technical aspects of the NEMDE Solver Service - this may be the existing information systems contact registered with the AEMO Helpdesk.

The Market Management Systems Access Policy ("MMSA Policy") applies to the protection and management of the NEMDE Solver User's access to the NEMDE User Service and the NEMDE Solver User must comply with the MMSA Policy.

The NEMDE Solver User must pay AEMO the NEMDE Solver Fee.

AEMO may review and alter the NEMDE Solver Fee on each anniversary of the Commencement Date.

AEMO will invoice the NEMDE Solver User with:

The NEMDE Solver User must pay the amount set out in the invoice within 10 Business Days of the receipt of the invoice.

AEMO may include amounts payable under this agreement in the statements under clause 3.15 of the Rules and, if it chooses to do so, those amounts are payable at the same time as any other amounts included in that statement under the Rules.

Each party must provide appropriate tax or other invoices to assist the other party to claim input tax credits for GST where relevant in connection with this Agreement and to provide such other reasonable assistance to facilitate the management by each party of its GST affairs in connection with this Agreement.

The NEMDE Solver User may terminate this Agreement by giving not less than 30 days' notice to AEMO if the NEMDE Solver User no longer requires the NEMDE Solver Service, and AEMO will cease supplying the NEMDE Solver Service from the date identified in the notice.

AEMO may terminate this Agreement on 14 days' notice if:

AEMO may terminate this Agreement at any time and for any reason by giving the NEMDE Solver User at least 30 days' notice.

Without limiting its rights under clause 7.2 or 7.3, AEMO may immediately suspend the NEMDE Solver User's access to the NEMDE Solver Service if at any time AEMO considers that:

In the course of providing the NEMDE Solver Service, AEMO will collect and generate information concerning the NEMDE Solver User's use of the NEMDE Solver Service and may disclose aggregated data or statistical information about its use of the NEMDE Solver Service to third parties, provided that the data or information is not identifiable as relating to the NEMDE Solver User.

The NEMDE Solver User must do all things reasonably necessary to protect AEMO's Intellectual Property Rights.

The NEMDE Solver User warrants that it will not copy, modify, reverse engineer, decompile or adapt the software relating to the NEMDE Solver Service or any related manuals or documentation without the express consent of AEMO.

AEMO does not authorise anyone to make a warranty of any kind on its behalf and the NEMDE Solver User shall not rely on anyone making such statements.

The parties agree that Part 4 of the Civil Liability Act 2002 (NSW) will not apply to any claim, action, suit or proceeding brought by AEMO against the NEMDE Solver User in connection with this Agreement, however, it will apply to any claim, action, suit or proceeding brought against AEMO in connection with this Agreement.

The NEMDE Solver User hereby indemnifies and holds AEMO harmless against all claims and Liability that AEMO may incur directly or indirectly in connection with:

A notice, approval, consent, agreement, or other communication ("communication") required by this Agreement must be:

The NEMDE Solver User must not assign, transfer, novate or encumber its rights or obligations under this Agreement or declare itself a trustee in relation to this Agreement without first obtaining AEMO's consent.

A right may only be waived in writing, signed by the party giving the waiver and:

An amendment to this Agreement will be effective only if made in writing and signed by the parties.

AEMO may exercise its rights, remedies or powers in any way it considers appropriate.

This Agreement may consist of a number of copies, each signed by one or more parties to this Agreement.

The CCF-IMS Software may only be loaded on workstations in the registered company's computer network, it is preferable to use IMS on only one workstation to avoid system duplication.

You must not:

While the Licensor has endeavoured to make sure that the CCF-IMS Software works, the Licensor does not guarantee that the CCF-IMS Software will work on all computer hardware platforms or configurations and makes no warranty that the CCF-IMS Software will be error free or that use will be uninterrupted.

Where conditions, warranties or other rights for your benefit are implied in this License or otherwise conferred by the Trade Practices Act 1974 (Commonwealth of Australia) and it is not lawful to exclude them, then those conditions, warranties and other rights will (but only to the extent required by law) apply to this License.

The Licensor will not be liable to you or any other person for any indirect loss, damages, costs or expenses suffered by you or any other person relating to the performance, non-performance or any breach of this License or the supply of the CCF-IMS Software.

You agree that the Licensor will not be liable, other than as expressly set out in this License, and that you will indemnify the Licensor in respect of any liability, loss, damage, costs or expenses which you may suffer or incur as a result of your use of the CCF-IMS Software (including any claims made against you by third parties).

Immediately a terminating event specified in Clauses 8(a)(i) to 8(a)(iii) occurs, you shall immediately inform the Licensor of the event.

Any termination of the License shall not affect any accrued rights or liabilities of either party, nor shall it affect any provision of this Agreement which is expressly or by implication intended to continue in force after such termination.

The term of this License is perpetual, provided that this License may be terminated by the Licensor if you are in breach of this License or as otherwise set out in this License.

Clauses 3, 6 and 7 will survive the termination of this License.

Upon the termination of this License, you or your representative must delete the Software from your computer, destroy the Software, user's manual and related materials and any copies of them which you possess or return or dispose of them in the manner directed by the Licensor.

Software enhancements and patches to the CCF-IMS Software product, issued during the term of this license, shall be subject to all the conditions of this license

If GST is payable on a Taxable Supply made by the Reseller to the Company, then the Company will not be required to pay any amount to the Reseller in respect of that Taxable Supply unless it has first received a Tax Invoice from the Reseller.

In the event of any inconsistency between the terms set out in Clauses 1 - 25 of this Agreement (Core Terms), the Schedule, Tariffs and UK Conditions (which are listed in their order of precedence), then the provisions set out in a document, schedule or annexure ranking higher in precedence will prevail over those provisions set out in any lower ranking document, schedule or annexure to the extent of any inconsistency.

PBT may refuse an Order, without liability to the Customer (including but not limited to any Damages suffered or incurred by the Customer), at anytime from receipt of an Order prior to the time PBT is required to supply the Services.

If the Customer, their Agent, Pilot or Harbour Control cancels any Order less than two (2) hours prior to the booked time of the Order, then the applicable Cancellation Fee will apply.

Unless stated in this Agreement or otherwise agreed by PBT in writing the applicable Tariffs will be charged in relation to Services supplied by PBT.

The minimum charge to and payable by the Customer for Services will be the Tariff for the Minimum Period for that Service provided by PBT, even if the Services are completed in a shorter time.

If PBT supplies any Service for any Additional Period and that Additional Period is not the result of any default or delay by PBT, the Customer will be charged for each hour or part thereof, at the full hourly rate applicable to that Service until the Service is completed.

Where this Agreement is for a period exceeding twelve (12) months then on each anniversary of this Agreement the Tariffs will be increased by:

If any cheque, credit card or other form of payment issued by the Customer or by any third party in connection with the Tariffs is dishonoured PBT may refuse to supply any further Services (whether or not PBT is to supply any further Services), until satisfactory payment is received in full.

A party to this Agreement may at any time terminate this Agreement immediately if the other party (Defaulting Party):

In the event of this Agreement being terminated in accordance with Clause 9 PBT will cease to provide the Services to the Customer, however, may in its sole discretion, and subject to any additional conditions imposed by PBT, complete any Order.

The Company will provide tax invoices in relation to any Tariffs for Services rendered but not yet billed and the Customer will pay all amounts outstanding to PBT within fourteen (14) days of the termination of this Agreement.

The Customer must provide PBT in a timely manner with all information, certificates and authorisations reasonably requested by PBT in connection with the Services and the Vessel.

A party must not start arbitration or court proceedings (except proceedings seeking interlocutory relief) in respect of a dispute arising out of this Agreement (Dispute) unless it has complied with this clause.

A party claiming that a Dispute has arisen must notify the other party to the Dispute giving details of the Dispute (Notification).

On receipt of a Notification each party agrees to nominate a suitable representative who shall have the authority to settle the dispute.

If the Dispute is not resolved under Clause 13.3 within 30 days (or longer period agreed between the parties), the parties must refer the Dispute for arbitration by the Australian Commercial Dispute Centre Limited (ACDC), in Sydney for resolution in accordance with the its rules and the arbitrator's decision will be binding on the parties.

Notwithstanding anything else in this Agreement PBT, to the extent permissible by law, excludes all implied warranties and conditions relating to the Services and is not liable for any Damages, however arising, incurred or suffered by the Customer or any third party as a result of the Customer's use of or the supply of the Services, including but not limited to those damages arising out of any delay or failure to supply the Services or the negligence of PBT, its employees, officers, agents and contractors, and any liability attributable to it shall be limited to the remedies contained in section 68A of the Trade Practices Act 1974 (Cth).

The Customer must notify PBT in writing of any claim which it may have against PBT arising in connection with this Agreement within six (6) months of PBT completing or failing to complete (as the case may be) the Services in respect of an Order to which the claim relates and must commence legal proceedings against PBT within one (1) year of the time when the cause of action first arose.

Subject to this Agreement, the Customer acknowledges PBT is only required to supply the number of Tugs stated in the Order and PBT will not be:

Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement each party (Affected Party) will be excused from complying with the terms of this Agreement for the period that it is so unable to perform and is not liable to the other party in respect of such inability (except for those requiring the payment of any moneys) if and for so long as such compliance is hindered or prevented by inclement weather, riots, strikes, industrial action, wars (declared or undeclared), insurrections, rebellions, strikes, attacks, civil disturbances, dispositions, or orders of an Authority, acts of God or by act or cause which is reasonably beyond the control of such party.

A party, other than the Affected Party, will be entitled to terminate this Agreement, without liability to the Affected Party, if the Affected Party continues to be unable to perform its obligations under this Agreement, due to an event described in Clause 15.1, for a period of twenty (20) consecutive Business Days, provided the event was not caused or contributed to by such party.

If either party (GST Supplier) is or becomes liable to pay GST for the purposes of the A New Tax System (Goods & Services Tax) Act 1999 (Cth) (GST Act) in respect of any taxable supply or supplies made by it to the other party (GST Recipient) pursuant to this Agreement, the GST Recipient will pay to the GST Supplier, at the same time as it pays to the GST Supplier the consideration in respect of such taxable supply or supplies, the full amount of the GST calculated without regard to any entitlement that the GST Supplier may have to any input tax credits.

At or before the time of payment of the consideration in respect of the taxable supply or supplies, the GST Supplier must provide to the GST Recipient either personally or by its agent a valid tax invoice for the purposes of the GST Act.

Any notice, demand, consent or other communication given or made under this agreement must be:

A party may change its Address or Fax Number for the purpose of service by giving notice of that change to the other party in accordance with clause 17.1.

Any communication will be taken to be received by the recipient:

A party cannot in any way or for any purpose bind another party or contract in the name of another party.

If a party must fulfil an obligation and that party is dependent on another party, then that other party must do each thing reasonably within its power to assist the other in the performance of that obligation.

A word or provision must be read down if this agreement is void, voidable, or unenforceable if it is not read down, this agreement will not be void, voidable or unenforceable if it is read down and the provision is capable of being read down.

A word or provision must be severed if despite the operation of clause 23.1, the provision is void, voidable or unenforceable if it is not severed and this agreement will be void, voidable or unenforceable if it is not severed.

(s) or the grounds of the property, then-You must assume that there may be some structural or concealed damage within the building(s).

This Record of Understanding and its Schedules and Attachments (together the "Agreement") commences on [date] and will continue until completion of the Activity by [date] or as otherwise agreed in writing by the Parties.

The financial arrangements set out in Schedule 2 (Basis of Payment) will apply to the Activity.

the Organisation will refund to AusAID the funds advanced at Schedule 2 less the amounts to be agreed with AusAID in accordance with Clause 11.2 below; or

above will be based on the following:

(d) (Payments and Invoices) and unless otherwise agreed by the Parties, the Parties will at all times during the dispute proceed to fulfil their obligations under this Agreement.

The Organisation will be responsible for all administrative and travel arrangements associated with this Activity.

The Organisation will inform AusAID immediately if and when it becomes aware of any emerging issues or circumstances that will slow Activity implementation.

weeks of completion of the Activity, an Activity Completion Report ("the ACR") will be prepared by the Agency and delivered to AusAID.

Payment will be as follows: Within thirty (30) days of signing of this Agreement and presentation to AusAID of a valid Tax Invoice, AusAID will advance $AInsert Amount plus GST if any up to a maximum amount of $AInsert Amount to the Organisation in the form of an accountable cash grant.

In accordance with Clause 3.2 of Schedule 1 of this Agreement, the Organisation must submit a certified statement acquitting funds advanced against the agreed indicative budget as part of its Activity Completion Report.

The parties may, at any time before the Term expires, extend the term for a further term to be agreed between them in writing.

If CSU, acting reasonably, is not satisfied that any of the Consultant's Personnel are performing the Consultant's obligations properly, CSU may, by notifying the Consultant 14 days in advance, require the Consultant to substitute the Consultant's personnel with a person acceptable to the University.

If any of the specified personnel cannot perform the Services, the Consultant will inform CSU as soon as possible.

If the Consultant fails to provide acceptable replacement personnel in accordance with clause 5.3(b) or (c), CSU may terminate this Agreement by giving the Consultant 14 days written notice.

The Consultant must effect and maintain the insurance policies set out in Item 10 throughout the term of the Agreement and any other insurance policy required by law in connection with the provision of the Services.

(a) and must not hold itself out to be, an agent, employee, partner, joint venturer or otherwise associated with CSU;

The Recipient may only disclose the Disclosing Party's Confidential Information to:

CSU may terminate this Agreement by written notice if the Consultant becomes bankrupt or insolvent, or enters into a scheme or arrangement with its creditors.

Either party may terminate this Agreement by written notice if the other party breaches a term of this Agreement and such breach is not remedied within 28 days of receipt of written notice specifying the nature of the breach.

A party claiming that a dispute has arisen must notify the other party specifying details of the dispute.

Each party must refer a dispute to an authorised officer for consideration and use its best efforts to resolve the dispute through negotiation.

If the dispute has not been resolved within seven (7) Business Days following the dispute notification or longer period agreed between the parties, the dispute must be referred to an expert mediator agreed between the parties, or if the parties cannot agree, a mediator appointed by the Australian Commercial Disputes Centre in Sydney.

If the dispute has not been resolved within (10) Business Days of being referred to the mediator, then either party may terminate the mediation process by written notice to the other party.

The Internship will commence on INSERT DATE ("Commencement Date") and (subject to clause 5) end on INSERT DATE ("Cessation Date").

The Internship may not be extended beyond the Cessation Date except by further Deed in writing executed by the Parties.

The Internship may be terminated prior to the Cessation Date in accordance with clause 5 of this Internship Deed.

This Deed may only be varied by amendment in writing and executed by both parties.

In this Deed a reference to Monash University shall be read as a reference to and including as appropriate, Monash University's successor, transferee and assignees.

The Referrer will introduce or refer to Ausmed from time to time Prospective Members via the Hypertext Link.

Ausmed will keep a record of those Prospective Members who subscribe and purchase a Membership from the Ausmed Website after being referred to the Ausmed Website in accordance with clause 2(a) ("Referral Purchase").

Ausmed may vary the amount of the Referrer Fee from time to time by giving written notice to the Referrer.

Where the total amount of all Referrer Fees payable in a Payment Period is less than $AUD1000 as outlined in clause 3.1(c), the Referrer Fees will be carried over to a Payment Period where the Referrer Fees accrue to an amount greater or equal to $AUD1000.

Subject to clauses 3.1(c), 3.1(d) and 3.1(e), the Referrer will be paid the Referrer Fee in the month following the Payment Period in the manner specified in item 5 of the schedule.

Where a Prospective Member has visited more than one Referrer before making a Referral Purchase, the Referrer most recently visited in time by the Prospective Member prior to making the Referral Purchase will be deemed to be the Referrer responsible for the Referral Purchase and will be entitled to the Referrer Fee.

The Referrer must pay all Taxes and Ausmed may deduct from the Referrer Fee (or be entitled to a refund from the Referrer Fee already paid by Ausmed) any payments of Taxes which Ausmed is required to make or withhold on the Referrer's behalf and Ausmed will be deemed to have paid the amount deducted to the Referrer.

If any Transaction Taxes are payable in connection with anything done under or contemplated by this agreement, the relevant party shall issue such Transaction Tax Invoice as is necessary for a party to be entitled to claim any applicable Transaction Tax Credit.

Without obtaining prior written approval from Ausmed, the Referrer must not:

The Referrer must provide to Ausmed, for Ausmed's prior written approval, all material relating to Ausmed or which includes any reference to Ausmed which the Referrer proposes to make available for the purposes of promoting Ausmed.

The Referrer must use the Hypertext Link to direct referrals to the Ausmed Website for a valid Referral Purchase to occur.

The Referrer must not frame any of the Ausmed Website via the Hypertext Link.

the Referrer does not and will not infringe any law, regulation, or industry code;

The Referrer acknowledges and agrees that Ausmed will inform all Prospective Members that a Referrer Fee will be paid to the Referrer by Ausmed should a Referral Purchase occur.

The Referrer must inform each Prospective Member that the Referrer will receive a Referrer Fee from Ausmed should a Referral Purchase occur in relation to that Prospective Member.

Notwithstanding any other term of this agreement, all Prospective Member Data, together with any Intellectual Property Rights in any Prospective Member Data, is and will remain the exclusive property of Ausmed.

All rights, powers and privileges with respect to Prospective Member Data will be held solely and exclusively by Ausmed.

This agreement will have effect from the date this agreement is made and continues for the Term or until it is otherwise terminated under this clause 11.

Either party may terminate this agreement by not less than 14 days written notice to the other party at any time.

Ausmed may terminate this agreement immediately by written notice if there is any breach by the Referrer of clauses 4, 5, 6, 7 or 12.

Ausmed will only be liable for a Referrer Fee applicable to a Referral Purchase arising out of a referral received prior to the month in which this agreement terminated or expired.

Each party must at all times:

Each party will ensure that its personnel, external contractors and advisers are aware of the confidential nature of the Confidential Information of the other party and do not do anything which if done by the party would cause a breach of this clause 12.

Ausmed may assign its rights and obligations under this agreement without the consent of the Referrer.

The Referrer may not assign its rights and obligations without the consent of Ausmed.

If a provision or any part of the agreement is void or voidable by either party or unenforceable or illegal but would not be void or voidable or unenforceable or illegal if it were read down and it is capable of being read down, it will be read down accordingly.

The Referrer will, upon Ausmed's reasonable request, do all things necessary in order to perfect the rights granted under this agreement.

This agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts.

the Recipient can prove by contemporaneous written records was already known to the Recipient at the time of its disclosure; or

The Recipient acknowledges and accepts that the Confidential Information is of considerable value to the Proprietor and the Proprietor will suffer financial and other loss and damage if there is a breach of any covenant or undertaking in this Deed and/or if the Confidential Information is disclosed to any other person or used for any purpose other than the Purpose and that monetary damages will be an insufficient remedy for any breach of this Deed by the Recipient or its directors, employees, agents and contractors.

The Recipient acknowledges and agrees that it will make its own assessment and evaluation of the Confidential Information and that any reliance it places on the Confidential Information is at its own risk.

The Recipient must not, without the written consent of the Proprietor, use or disclose the Confidential Information for any purpose, other than the Purpose, to obtain an unfair advantage or springboard into the indoor children's "Pay for Play" market during the specified periods in the specified areas.

If any provision of this Deed does not comply with any law then the provision must be read down so as to give it as much effect as possible.

This Deed shall bind the Proprietor and the Recipient and each and every of their heirs, successors or assigns.

This Deed shall be governed by the laws of Victoria, Australia, and the parties hereby submit to jurisdiction of the courts of Victoria, Australia.

This Deed binds each of the signatories even if one or more of the persons named may not execute or be bound by this Deed.

Any notice required to be served under this Deed must be in writing and served by:

(s) and shall not be modified or rescinded nor any terms stated by the Supplier in accepting or acknowledging this order shall be binding upon Company unless accepted in writing by the nominated Company  Representative.

it is registered and holds all requisite licences, permits etc, required by Law and that are necessary to properly provide the Goods and Services and that such registration or licences / permits will remain current for the period of this Contract.

that all work shall be performed in the best and workmanlike manner and acknowledges that the Company entered into this Contract relying on the particular skill, competence, experience and ability of the Supplier to provide the Goods and Services.

The Supplier has knowledge of all the applicable Laws, business practices and standards which must be followed in providing the Goods and Services and will comply with all applicable laws and standards.

in the case of Goods, the Goods will conform to its description in the Purchase Order Documents and any applicable specifications and shall be of good merchantable quality, free from defects in material and workmanship and fit for the purpose for which it is sold (if known to the Supplier) or for

The Company may terminate this order if Supplier: (i) fails to comply with any of the provisions hereof; (ii) fails to remedy breach within seven days of notice of breach by Company; (iii) is insolvent; or (iv)if Supplier becomes the subject of administration, liquidation, a proceeding for relief of debtors or

Without affecting its right to terminate this order under paragraph (a) hereof, Company may for its convenience terminate this order in whole or from time to time in part provided that the Company is paid reasonable compensation (calculated on the same basis as purchase order pricing) for work started but not completed.

shall supply all labour, tools, equipment and materials necessary to complete the work.

shall use its best endeavours not to impede or interfere with other work in progress on the Company's premises.

shall at its own expense obtain all requisite licences and permits and comply with all laws and regulations in connection with the provision of Goods and Services.

will: (i) pay all wages, superannuation and any other contributions or payments required by law to be paid by an employer in respect of persons supplied by the Supplier in the provision of the Goods and Services,

The law of Queensland shall apply to this Contract.

No variation to this Contract will be binding on the parties unless agreed in writing.

Each Party's representatives must attempt to resolve the dispute through discussions/ negotiations within ten (10) business days of receipt of the notice.

The Principal Supervisor warrants that the Supervision will be provided:

The Principal Supervisor will report to the Head of the UNE School listed in the Details.

The Supervision will be provided for the Term.

The Supervision will be provided for the minimum hours per week listed in the Details.

Except as where expressly defined, all words and phrases used in this agreement shall have the same meaning if any, given to them in The Australian Postal Corporation Act 1989 and in the Australia Post Terms and Conditions provided, however, that where there is any inconsistency, the meaning shall be as defined in this agreement to the extent of that inconsistency.

Articles lodged pursuant to this agreement must not be larger than 360mm x 260mm.

Articles may be lodged enveloped, wrapped or unwrapped.

A sample may be required before the distribution is approved.

Apart from the Reply Paid service, no special services may be used in conjunction with the Unaddressed Mail Service.

No explosive substances or prescribed or dangerous or deleterious substances may be lodged, except in accordance with the Australia Post Terms and Conditions.

The Mailer agrees that Australia Post may disclose the Mailer's name and address to a person to whom an article has been delivered upon the request of that person.

Australia Post shall deliver Unaddressed Mail in the normal course of its business provided always that:

Where articles are lodged for delivery from more than one delivery office, the person lodging the articles may nominate the proportion of the total lodgment that is to be delivered from each office.

Subject to clause 7.1 and clause 7.2, the articles shall be delivered as follows:

Payment of an amount for each of the articles in the lodgment, equal to the agreed postage payable per item, shall be by money or charged to a charge account approved by Australia Post for the purpose.

Where Australia Post has agreed that the Mailer may use the service and the Mailer fails to lodge articles in accordance with the agreed volume or geographical area and/or the lodgement conditions and notice requirements advised by Australia Post, the Mailer indemnifies and will keep indemnified, Australia Post for all loss and damage including loss of profit that Australia Post suffers as a result.

Australia Post shall not be in default under the terms of this agreement nor liable for failure to observe or perform in accordance with any provision of this agreement for any reason or cause which could not with reasonable diligence be controlled or prevented by it, including without limitation, war, insurrection, riot, civil commotion, strikes, lock-outs, labour or industrial disputes, acts of God, acts of Governments or flood, storm, tempest, power shortages or power failure, inability to obtain sufficient labour, raw materials, fuel or utilities.

All the rights, immunities and limitations of liability in this Agreement shall continue to have their full force and effect in all circumstances notwithstanding any breach of contract or of any conditions hereof by Australia Post.

All the terms and conditions of this agreement shall be severable and no provision shall be affected by the invalidity of any other provision except to the extent that such invalidity also renders such other provisions invalid and in the event of the invalidity of any provisions, this agreement shall be interpreted and enforced as if the invalid provision was not contained in this agreement.

The terms and conditions of this agreement shall not be varied, waived or added to except as agreed by the Mailer and Australia Post in writing and signed on their behalf.

Any notice required to be served by or under these terms and conditions shall be sufficiently given to the customer if left at or sent by post addressed to the customer at its last known or usual place of address and to Australia Post if sent by post to the appropriate State Administration at its current address.

This agreement is governed by, and shall be construed in accordance with, the laws in force in the State of Victoria and the courts and registries of courts in that State shall have jurisdiction in the event of a dispute.

This agreement shall not constitute or imply any agreement between Australia Post and the customer (or any undertaking or obligation whatsoever on the part of Australia Post) with respect of the carriage of any postal article.

Subject to clause 1.1 this agreement contains the whole of the agreement between the parties in relation the special service and any representation or warranty made by either party prior to entering into this Agreement shall have no force or effect unless otherwise stated herein.

4.1 of this Escrow Agreement and, subject to the terms and conditions of this Escrow Agreement, shall hold the Source Code and Supporting Material on behalf of the Customer and the Contractor.

A notice or other communication which may be given to or served on either party under this Escrow Agreement is deemed to have been duly given or served if it is in writing, signed by the Party giving the notice ("the first Party") and is either delivered by hand, posted, sent via facsimile or a copy transmitted via electronic mail or other electronic means to the other Party at the address set out below or such other address as is notified in writing to the first party from time to time.

The Terms and the Schedule form part of and apply exclusively to any Agreement and the Services performed by or on behalf of Toll, provided however that if the Services are 'International Carriage' as defined in the applicable Convention, the Services, the Schedule and the Terms shall be subject to the provisions of the applicable Convention, together with the Terms and the Schedule (to the extent that the Terms and the Schedule are not inconsistent with the provisions of such Convention).

The Agreement may include additional terms in the Schedule and to the extent of any inconsistency with the Terms, the details and terms in the Schedule prevail.

The Customer agrees the Aircraft will be used to carry Cargo on the Scheduled Flight Dates in accordance with the Flight Schedule.

The Customer must pay Toll the Charges in respect of the Services.

Toll shall invoice the Customer for all Charges (or an estimate of the Charges) before the provision of the Services with payment due upon presentation of invoice.

All fuel, oil, Aircrew salary, Aircrew expenses, Aircraft maintenance, terminal expenses, meteorological expenses, airport fire and emergency levies, Aircraft landing fees and Aircraft parking fees and aeronautical navigation charges shall be paid by Toll with the exception of any duties or taxes charged or costs referred to in the Schedule.

If all or part of any money prepaid to Toll by or on behalf of the Customer in connection with the Agreement is prepaid by Toll prior to the commencement of the Services to any third party contracting with Toll including in relation to the provision of the Aircraft or Aircrew to Toll and that party is in breach of such contract with Toll, Toll's liability to the Customer will be limited to using its best endeavours to recover such prepaid money and upon receipt thereof will account to the Customer for the same subject to Toll being entitled to deduct all costs and expenses incurred by Toll in recovering such prepayment.

If the Customer fails to pay any sum payable to Toll or any of its Related Bodies Corporate in accordance with the Agreement or if the Customer suffers any Insolvency Event, then all money which would become payable by the Customer to Toll at a later date on any account becomes immediately due and payable without the requirement for notice, Toll may cease or suspend, for such period as it thinks fit, further supply of the Services to the Customer and the Customer must, without prejudice to any other remedy available to Toll, pay interest on the sum from the due date of payment until the sum is paid in full, at the interest rate prescribed by the Penalty Interest Rates Act 1983 (Vic) from time to time plus four percent per annum (4%) and such interest will accrue and be payable from day to day and shall be calculated on the basis of actual days elapsed and a 365 day year.

Charges are based on the premise that the Flight will proceed normally in accordance with the Flight Schedule, without undue delays beyond Toll's or any Carrier's Agent's control.

(a) or clause 5.4 occurs, the Customer shall be liable to pay any increase in the Charges, as determined by Toll, and any other costs, expenses, losses and damages occasioned by any deviations from the Flight Schedule, extra flight time or delays or Flight diversions to another airfield which the Captain deems necessary and the Customer indemnifies Toll for any Liabilities it sustains or incurs in respect thereof.

If any Flight is diverted to another airfield or delayed for reason which the Captain deems necessary, the Flight shall nevertheless be deemed to be complete in accordance with the Flight Schedule, no compensation or reduction in the Charges shall be given to the Customer and the Customer will be liable for any additional costs resulting from any deviation, delay or diversion of the Flight.

If the Customer is required to pay the Cancellation Fee, Toll shall be entitled to set off and apply the Charges prepaid to Toll under clause 4(b) against the Cancellation Fee and any other money owing to Toll by the Customer under the Agreement.

Toll may cancel any Flight Schedule if Toll, in its sole discretion, determines that the transportation of the Cargo would be unsafe or in violation of any applicable law, rule or regulation.

If any Flight Schedule is cancelled, Toll may, in its sole discretion, reschedule the cancelled Flight and any additional costs associated with the rescheduling will be borne by the Customer.

The Customer must ensure that all cargo classed as Dangerous Goods must be listed on the Notice To Captain (NOTOC) in accordance with the requirements of the IATA Dangerous Goods Regulations, including the proposed location of the Dangerous Goods in the Aircraft and on the loadsheet, and the category and labelling of the Dangerous Goods and all applicable segregation requirements.

The Customer shall indemnify Toll from all Liability resulting from the hazardous/dangerous character of the Cargo, including any Dangerous Goods, whether to Toll and/or its employees and property, or any Carrier's Agent or to other persons or property.

Toll or any Carrier's Agent may, without any Liability to the Customer:

Despite any other condition, Toll will be discharged from all Liability in respect of any Flight unless an action is brought by the Customer within 6 months of completion of the Flight.

If damage to Cargo is caused or contributed to by the negligence or other wrongful act or omission of the Customer or its Related Bodies Corporate, any Owner or any person from whom the Customer's rights are derived, Toll shall be wholly or partly exonerated from Liability to the Customer to the extent that such negligence or wrongful act or omission, caused or contributed to the damage.

Toll will use reasonable endeavours to meet the Flight Schedule but will, in no circumstances whatsoever, incur or suffer any Liability suffered by the Customer, any Owner or any third party for failure to meet the Flight Schedule.

Notwithstanding any other clause in the Terms, nothing in the Terms excludes, restricts or modifies, or is to be interpreted as excluding, restricting or modifying any statutory obligation of Toll or any Carrier's Agent or the application of law applicable to the Services which cannot lawfully be excluded, restricted or modified.

The Customer shall indemnify Toll against, and pay to Toll on demand, the Liabilities suffered or incurred by any Aircraft Operator, including any loss or damage to the Aircraft or any other property, caused or contributed to by, or arising from or in respect of the Cargo or any other act or omission of the Customer, any Owner, or their respective employees, agents or representatives, including for any breach of the Agreement.

Toll or any Carrier's Agent may sell, dispose of or return to a collection point specified by Toll at the Departure Point any uncollected or undeliverable Cargo within 7 days after making reasonable efforts to contact the Customer and will not be required to account to the Customer for the sale, disposal or return of the Cargo unless required to do so by law.

All the exclusions and limitations of Toll's Liability in this clause 7 apply in respect of any Liability suffered or incurred in any way by the Customer or any Owner however caused, including, but not limited to, for defective services or defective performance, breach of contract, negligence at law or equity, lost, damaged or stolen goods and any other Liability which may arise in connection with its performance or non performance under the Agreement, other than as a result of fraud or deliberate misconduct by Toll.

In the case of loss of, damage to or delay in the delivery of or failure to deliver the Cargo, the weight to be taken into consideration in determining the amount to which Toll's Liability is limited shall only be the weight of the affected part of the Cargo where unpackaged, or otherwise the package or packages concerned.

The Customer must not make and must ensure that no Owner makes a Claim against Toll which is inconsistent with this clause 7.

For the purposes of the Agreement, where the expression GST inclusive is used in relation to an amount payable or other consideration to be provided for a supply under the Agreement, the amount or consideration will not be increased on account of any GST payable on that supply.

If a party must reimburse or indemnify another party for a loss, cost or expense, the amount to be reimbursed or indemnified is first reduced by any input tax credit the other party is entitled to for the loss, cost or expense, and then increased in accordance with clause 8(d).

The Customer acknowledges all the information in the Agreement is confidential and the Customer must not disclose such information to any third party without Toll's prior written consent.

The Agreement constitutes the entire agreement between the parties in connection with its subject matter, supersedes any prior agreement or understanding between the parties in connection with the subject matter and cannot be varied except by written agreement of the parties.

A term or part of a term of the Agreement that is illegal or unenforceable may be severed from the Agreement and the remaining terms or parts of the terms of the Agreement continue in force.

Toll or the Customer may not assign or transfer all or any part of their respective rights or obligations under the Agreement without the prior written consent of the other party, except that Toll may assign its rights or obligations under the Agreement without obtaining the consent of the other party to any of its Related Bodies Corporate.

Toll may sub-contract on any terms the performance of part or all of its obligations under the Agreement in its absolute discretion, including to any Carrier's Agent and without obtaining the consent of the Customer.

Any stamp duty, duties or other taxes of a similar nature (including fines, penalties and interest) in connection with the Agreement or the Services must be paid by the Customer.

The parties will co-operate to:

Subject to the terms of any Collaboration Agreement agreed to, each party will have the right, in any field related to the Project or otherwise, to:

the provision of a Project plan pursuant to which the Project will be carried out which will include information pertaining to technical objectives, statement of work, deliverables, schedule, decision gates, resource requirements and costs;

The parties acknowledge that for any agreement to be binding on them, it must be in writing and signed by a duly authorised representative of each of the University and [Partner short name].

The parties may exchange Confidential Information relevant to proposed Projects.

Each Party will take such reasonable steps to provide for the safe custody of any and all Confidential Information in its possession and to prevent unauthorised access thereto or use thereof.

At any time upon the written request of a party, the other party must return any documents which embody Confidential Information and must not keep any copies in any form.

This MOU may be terminated by mutual consent of the parties.

A Collaboration Agreement made pursuant to clause 2 of this MOU will survive termination or expiration of this MOU.

This MOU may only be amended by agreement in writing between the parties but not otherwise.

Return of the documents and other material referred to in clause 3.1 above does not release either party or its employees, agents or advisers from their obligations under this Agreement and the parties agree that a provision of this Agreement which can and is intended to operate after its conclusion will remain in full force and effect.

Both parties expressly acknowledge the unique and special nature of the Confidential Information the loss of which may not reasonably or adequately be compensated for in damages or in action at law and agrees that any failure on either party's part to observe and perform its obligations under this Agreement shall entitle the party not in default ("non defaulting party") to institute proceedings for an injunction to restrain the party in default ("defaulting party") from committing or continuing any breach of this Agreement.

Both parties hereby agree that in the event that it is necessary for the non-defaulting party to institute proceedings for an injunction, then all reasonable legal costs incurred by that party on a solicitor/client basis in connection with such proceedings shall be reimbursed by the defaulting party and shall be recoverable as a debt.

Before the party discloses any Confidential Information under any law or order of the kind referred to in clause 8.1 ("Disclosing Party"), the Disclosing Party will provide the other party with sufficient notice to enable it to seek a protective order or other remedy.

the obligations of confidence in this Agreement will survive termination of the Discussions, for that period set out in Clause 1.1;

Any notice, demand or document which any party is required or desires to give or deliver to or make upon the other party, shall be in writing and shall be:

This Agreement may be amended in whole or in part by written consent of the parties.

A provision of this Agreement or a right created under it may not be waived other than in writing signed by the party granting the waiver.

This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of Victoria, in Australia.

22.6 of the Rules, then under clauses 9.23.4 and 9.24 of the Rules the Market Participant will be liable to pay the Maximum Amount, or part of the Maximum Amount, to the IMO.

Unless otherwise specified in the demand, the Credit Support Provider must pay the amount specified in clause 3.1(b) in cleared funds in the manner and to the account specified in the written demand under clause 3.1(c) within ninety (90) minutes of the demand being made.

The Credit Support Provider must make the payment demanded:

The Credit Support Provider irrevocably waives, to the fullest extent it is permitted to do so by law, any right to claim sovereign immunity for itself and its assets (including from jurisdiction, enforcement or execution) to which it might otherwise be entitled in any action based on this Guarantee which may be instituted in a competent court.

Once this Guarantee has been terminated, for any of the reasons specified above, then the IMO must return it to the Credit Support Provider immediately.

The representations and warranties in clause 7.1 shall survive the execution of this Guarantee and the termination of this Guarantee.

The Credit Support Provider covenants with the IMO to indemnify and keep indemnified the IMO from and against any loss, damage, cost, expense or claim which the IMO may suffer or incur in connection with or in consequence of any breach of any of the representations and warranties in clause 7.1.

Any notice, demand or other communication ("notice") to be served under this Guarantee may be served upon any party only if it is communicated in writing and sent to:

Agistment fees will be agreed between the parties prior to the Stallion arriving at Cushavon Park.

All veterinary related expenses will be charged directly to the Stallion owner.

The Stud will use its best endeavours to notify the Stallion owner prior to any veterinary attendance upon the stallion however, the Stallion Owner agrees that the Stud has absolute discretion in this regard and will take no exception to any veterinary care the Stud has deemed necessary.

If veterinary fees remain unpaid for 30 days or more after issue of an invoice, then the Stud may terminate this agreement by giving the Stallion Owner 2 days notice in writing.

If farrier fees remain unpaid for 30 days or more after issue of an invoice, then the Stud may terminate this agreement by giving the Stallion Owner 2 days notice in writing.

The Stallion Owner will arrange for the Stallion to be transported to and from the Stud.

All transport expenses will be the responsibility of the Stallion owner.

The Stud will not be responsible for any loss, damage or claim relating to the agistment and/or stud handling duties of the Stallion.

The Stallion Owner will indemnify and keep indemnified the Stud from any loss, damage or claim which may arise as a result of the agistment and stud handling duties of the Stallion either during or after the period of this agreement.

Except as provided in clauses 2.3, 3.2 and 4.2 herein, this agreement may be terminated by either party giving the other 7 days written notice.

Upon termination of this agreement, the Stallion owner will -

Bookings for mares are to be taken by the Stallion Owner who will provide the Stud with at least 24 hours notice of such booking.

The stud will deal directly with mare owners regarding service by the stallion.

The Stallion Owner will arrange for all service fees to be paid directly to him/her and the Stud will not be responsible for collection of service fees unless there is prior agreement to do so.

a decision that there has been a breach of the agreement by either or both parties and that the conduct in breach of the agreement should not be repeated or continued;

Subject to clause 4.3, copyright in any Derivative product of CAMFor made under clause 7 vests in the Licensee or as it might arrange.

The Licensee shall maintain CAMFor in safe custody.

The Licensee shall take all reasonable steps to ensure that any person given access to CAMFor is aware of these Conditions and uses CAMFor only in accordance with the Agreement.

The Licensee may Commercialise CAMFor in unaltered form in accordance with this clause.

The Licensee shall not remove, obscure or interfere with any copyright notice, trademark, warning or disclaimer affixed to, incorporated in or otherwise applied in connection with CAMFor.

Any agreement under which CAMFor is supplied, sub-licensed or Commercialised to any third party shall incorporate a notification of precautions substantially identical to that set out in clause 8.

The Licensee may Commercialise CAMFor in an adapted form, or a product derived from or incorporating CAMFor, ("the Derivative"), but only in accordance with this clause.

The Licensee shall remove from the Derivative all copyright notices and trademarks affixed to, incorporated in or otherwise applied in connection with CAMFor.

The Derivative may not be Commercialised under the name "CAMFor".

Except where expressly agreed, the Licensee shall not represent to anyone that the Derivative has been approved or endorsed by AGO or the Commonwealth.

AGO cannot guarantee that CAMFor is free from errors, and does not warrant the quality, performance or suitability of CAMFor for any purpose.

The Licensee assumes responsibility for the interpretation of any results obtained from use of CAMFor, and must exercise all appropriate precautions before placing reliance on those results.

The Licensee releases AGO, the Commonwealth and their employees and agents in respect of all liability for loss, damage or injury which may be suffered by it arising from the Licensee's use or Commercialisation of CAMFor or a Derivative.

The Licensee indemnifies AGO, the Commonwealth and their employees and agents in respect of all liability for loss, damage or injury, which may be suffered by any person arising from the Licensee's Commercialisation of CAMFor or a Derivative.

If the Licensee breaches any of these Conditions, AGO may terminate the Agreement immediately by notice in writing to the Licensee.

The termination of the Agreement under Condition 11.1 shall be without prejudice to the rights of either party accrued under the Agreement prior to termination.

The Licensee shall cease using CAMFor for any purpose from the date of termination of the Agreement and shall return CAMFor and any copies made of it to AGO within 30 days of the date of termination.

No addition to or modification of any provision of the Agreement shall be binding unless in writing signed by both parties.

The Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws for the time being in force in the Australian Capital Territory.

No forbearance, delay or indulgence by a party in enforcing the provisions of the Agreement shall prejudice or restrict the rights of that party, nor shall waiver of those rights operate as a waiver of any subsequent breach.

5.6 or clause 5.7, the University may arrange for the performance of the necessary work and recover the cost from the Contractor.

above it shall pay the Contractor for that part of the Services authorised by the Principal and performed by the Contractor up to the termination date.

after demand for payment by Mobilink, all amounts owing by Customer to Mobilink on any account will immediately become due and payable together with legal costs of enforcement.

in full, despite any right of set-off that Customer may have.

All rights in the Product are reserved, and You may not make copies of the Product, or any part of the Product, except as expressly provided in this Licence.

We grant You a non-transferable, non-exclusive Licence to use the Product personally or for the internal purposes of Your organisation (as the case may be), but not to Exploit the Product or supply the Product to any third party.

In this clause 3, any act done in relation to a Derivative of the Product shall be deemed to be done in relation to the Product.

by a Party serving notice to another Party should that Party fail to observe or perform any of the condition of the Agreement and fail to remedy such breach within thirty days of the service of such notice or to the satisfaction of the Party serving notice within thirty days to take steps to begin to remedy such breach; or

The Activity to be undertaken by You is [insert description of what the funding must be used for, including any deliverables that are required].

As part of the Activity You must achieve the Milestones specified in the table at Annexure A.

The Activity Period commences on the Date of this Agreement and ends on [insert date which reflects when the Activity must be completed by.

You must obtain prior written approval from Us for any transfer of funds between the categories of expenditure identified in the Budget, which exceeds 10% of the Funding.

Subject to conditions at item 2.5, the Funding will be paid in accordance with the table at Annexure A:

This must be an account that is established solely for the purposes of accounting for, and administering, any Funding which is separate from Your other operational accounts.

You must provide to Us the reports required by the times specified in the table below [You may add or delete cells as required]:

must also include:

You must, at any time required by Us during the Operational Period, provide evidence satisfactory to Us, that the Project is Operational.

The following material is confidential and must not be disclosed:

You must erect the sign upon the occurrence of one of following events (which We may nominate and advise You of in advance):

must be displayed in public view on the site or location of the Project and maintained by You for a period of two years from the date it was erected, or for any longer period of time (which We may nominate and advise You of in advance).

You may nominate other signage options, which must be approved by Us prior to display; or

Subject to paragraph (d) of this clause, the Commonwealth will pay:

You must provide a tax invoice to the Commonwealth's Representative as soon as practicable after:

You must use the Funding to pay the remuneration of the Researcher for the performance of the Placement.

The Commonwealth may vary, withhold or cease (in whole or in part) the Funding if:

If a supply under this Agreement is subject to GST, the recipient must pay to the supplier (at the same time as the consideration for the supply is payable or is to be provided) an additional amount equal to the amount of the consideration multiplied by the applicable GST rate, provided that the supplier gives the recipient a tax invoice .

Each party will comply with the requirements and obligations regarding publicity and promotion set out in the Enterprise Connect Program Guidelines.

Without limiting clause 5(a), You must ensure that the Commonwealth's funding is acknowledged.

You must maintain the insurance policies specified in the Details.

You must provide evidence of insurance promptly on request by the Commonwealth.

You may terminate this Agreement, at any time, by giving the Commonwealth 30 days' written notice, in which case the Commonwealth is liable only for payments under clause 2(a) which have become due and payable in accordance with this Agreement before the effective date of termination.

You must notify the Commonwealth immediately if:

(a) and (b) of this clause must detail Your use of the Funding and describe the performance of the Placement and the RIB Project during the period from the Commencement Date to the date of preparation of the report.

You must give the Auditor-General and persons authorised by the Commonwealth (collectively, "those permitted") access to premises at which records are stored or work in connection with the Placement is undertaken at all reasonable times and allow those permitted to inspect and copy records in Your possession or control for purposes associated with this Agreement or any review of performance under this Agreement.

You must provide all reasonable assistance to those permitted.

The Placement Contract must include the following terms and conditions:

The Placement Contract must also:

A party may only assign its rights or novate its rights and obligations under this Agreement with the prior written consent of the other party.

This Agreement does not create a relationship of employment, agency or partnership between the parties, and You must not represent Yourself as being an officer, employee, partner or agent of the Commonwealth, or as otherwise able to bind or represent the Commonwealth.

(1) of this sub-clause, an employee whose employment terminates after they have completed a twelve-month qualifying period and who has not been allowed the leave prescribed under this Agreement in respect of that qualifying period, shall be given payment in lie of that leave or, in a case to which sub-clauses (e) and (f) of this clause apply, in lieu of so much of that leave as has not been allowed, unless: 

hours election leave shall be granted for each additional weekend worked.

above, the parties agree that nothing within this enterprise bargaining agreement will exclude employees from accessing benefits resulting from any National Wage Case after the nominal expiry date of this agreement if a new agreement has not been negotiated.

hereof may terminate his or her employment during the period of notice and, if so, shall be entitled to the same benefits and payments under this clause had they remained with the employer until the expiry of such notice.

The employee(s) concerned shall discuss the matter with the immediate supervisor.

shall be advised accordingly.

shall be advised accordingly.

(s) or their shop steward shall notify the Manager (WA Branch) of their nominee, so that they may have the opportunity of discussing the matter with the employer.

hereof, and no party, or individual, or groups of individuals, shall commence any other action, of whatever kind, which may frustrate a settlement in accordance with its procedures.

the Customer will be able to access the web pages advertising the Provider's Services.

The Term of this Agreement is the period specified in item 6 of Schedule 1 and unless renewed by the Parties in writing, this Agreement will end at the end of the Term;

Recipient must pay

Any party may change the address or facsimile number for service by giving notice to the other parties.

If the person to be served is a company, the notice or other communication may be served on it at the company's registered office.

No party will be liable for any loss or expenses incurred by another party caused or contributed to by the waiver, exercise, attempted exercise, failure to exercise or delay in the exercise of a right.

The headings in this Agreement shall not affect its interpretation.

A Survey completed in accordance with the terms of this Agreement shall bind all Claimants.

The Miner shall not enter or carry out any Activity on the land and waters within the Licence Area contrary to this Agreement.

The Miner shall immediately report to the NTP the location of any previously unidentified potential Aboriginal Site of which it becomes aware during the course of conducting Activity within the Licence Area.

In order to keep the Claimants informed of the Miner's Non Ground Disturbing Activity, the Miner shall notify the NTP of the following information in relation to areas within the Licence Area that have not been the subject of a Survey in accordance with this Agreement:

The notification may be given either annually or at least 21 days prior to the Non Ground Disturbing Activity being undertaken.

Should the NTP reasonably consider that the Activity outlined in the notification, pursuant to sub-clause 5.1, is not Non Ground Disturbing Activity or is inconsistent with sub-clause 4.1 then the Parties will meet to endeavour to resolve the matter.

In the event that the Miner intends to carry out Ground Disturbing Activity on the Licence Area, the Miner shall notify the NTP prior to the commencement of the Ground Disturbing Activity.

Where the land concerned has not been the subject of a Survey under this Agreement, the Miner shall provide to the NTP a Work Program containing at least the following information:

After the Miner delivers a Work Program the Parties will consult with each other to determine whether a Survey is required.

The Miner must provide the NTP with a copy of any report containing the results of any survey on which the Miner wants to rely.

If the Parties cannot reach agreement, in accordance with sub-clause 7.3(a), either Party may refer the matter to the dispute resolution process in clause 16.

The Survey Team shall consist of:

If the Miner has, on reasonable grounds (which will not include the mere fact that the person is employed by the Council), concerns about the Anthropologist to be appointed pursuant to sub-clause 7.5(a), it may request the NTP to consider another anthropologist to conduct the Survey.

The Miner shall send on the Survey with the Survey Team one or two nominees who have the authority to make amendments to the Work Program if necessary.

Prior to the commencement of the Survey, the NTP shall submit an estimate of costs of the Survey to the Miner for its approval.

The Miner shall pay the following costs and expenses, connected with the Survey Team, at the following rates:

(a) will be adjusted:

Once the Miner has paid the invoiced costs of the Survey, or within 30 days of completion of the fieldwork component of the Survey whichever is the later, the NTP shall provide the Miner with the Report which will include the information referred to in items 1 to 4 (a) (inclusive) of Attachment 1 and:

The Miner will provide any comments on the Report to the Anthropologist (and a copy of those comments to the NTP) within 14 days of receipt of the Report.

Subject to sub-clause 8.2, the Anthropologist will promptly finalise the Report and provide a copy to each of the Parties.

At the request of the Miner, the NTP will send a Survey Notice, in respect of the Survey, to the Department.

The NTP will use reasonable endeavours to complete any Survey, under clause 7, and provide a Report, under clause 8, as soon as is reasonably practicable but in any event within 90 days from receipt of the Work Program.

If there is any further Activity that the Miner wishes to conduct, within the Licence Area, which is not in a Work Area that has been the subject of a Survey under this Agreement, then clauses 5, 6, 7 and 8 will apply (as appropriate) to that proposed Activity.

The Miner shall not give notice under section 18 of the Heritage Act over any part of the Licence Area without first giving the NTP at least 30 days notice of its intention to do so.

The Miner must consult with the NTP about any proposal that is the subject of such a notice and will, in that consultation, give consideration to reasonable measures to minimise or mitigate impact on the relevant Aboriginal Sites having regard to the Miner's commercial considerations.

Prior to the Aboriginal Cultural Material Committee considering such a notice, the Miner must give reasonable notice to the NTP of the detail of its consultation process.

The Miner shall inform its Personnel of the Miner's obligation under this Agreement as well as the Heritage Act and the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Heritage Protection Act 1984 (Cth) and the Miner will require its Personnel to comply with the provisions of this Agreement.

Subject to this Agreement, the following shall be treated by the Parties as confidential:

Any confidential information may be divulged to a third party:

The obligations of the Parties under this clause shall survive the termination of this Agreement.

Delay caused by any of the following matters will be excluded from the 30 day and 90 day periods referred to in sub-clauses 7.3 and 8.5 respectively:

A Party asserting the existence of a delay, to which sub-clause 15.1 applies, must advise the other Party of that delay and take reasonable steps to mitigate that delay.

Notices given by one Party to another, pursuant to this Agreement, shall be in writing and sent to the address of the Miner or the NTP and shall be deemed to be served upon actual receipt or at the time of transmission if sent by facsimile transmission or 3 clear working days after posting by ordinary pre-paid post, whichever is the earlier.

The Miner shall pay all stamp duty assessed on this Agreement, including any stamp duty payable by way of fine or penalty.

This Agreement may be executed in counterparts.

This Agreement shall commence on the Commencement Date and will come to an end when the Miner ceases to hold an interest in the Licence.

The parties acknowledge that this Agreement is interdependent with the Funding Agreement and agree that without limiting any of the provisions of this Agreement, a breach of the Funding Agreement by the Project Sponsor will constitute a breach of this Agreement.

If the Funding Agreement is terminated, then this Agreement will be terminated with effect upon the date of termination of the Funding Agreement.

The Project Sponsor must provide the Chaplaincy Services in accordance with:

The Territory will cooperate, as reasonably necessary, with the Project Sponsor to enable the Project Sponsor to meet its obligations under this Agreement, the Funding Agreement, the DEST Guidelines and Territory policies.

This Agreement may be extended by written agreement of the parties prior to the expiration of this Agreement.

Territory Material will remain the property of the Territory and the Project Sponsor must only use that material for the purpose of providing the Chaplaincy Services or otherwise in accordance with any conditions notified to it by the Territory.

The Project Sponsor must not amend or adapt any Territory Material without the prior written consent of the Territory.

On the expiration or the earlier termination of this Agreement, the Project Sponsor must deliver to the Territory, all copies of Territory Material (other than copies of material that the Territory has authorised the Project Sponsor to retain).

The Project Sponsor must ensure that any person undertaking the role of School Chaplain for the purposes of this Agreement are fit and proper, where "fit and proper" means the person:

The Project Sponsor must ensure all persons undertaking the role of School Chaplain and other personnel who may come into contact with students at the School have a current Australian Federal Police criminal record check and satisfy the child protection check requirements as required by the DEST Guidelines and Territory policies, and will be responsible for meeting the costs of those checks.

The Project Sponsor must ensure that the persons specified in the Application or other persons agreed by the parties, will undertake the role of School Chaplain, subject to those persons satisfying the criminal record and child protection checks specified in clause 10.2.

The Project Sponsor must ensure a School Chaplain performs the Chaplaincy Services in accordance with this Agreement, DEST Guidelines, Territory legislation and policies.

The Project Sponsor must ensure a School Chaplain does not perform education in a particular religion at the School, as a part of their role as School Chaplain.

The Project Sponsor may advertise at the School the activities of local churches and denominations with the prior consent of the Territory and using methods approved by the Territory.

Except as provided in this Agreement, the Project Sponsor must not disclose Territory Information to any person without the prior written consent of the Territory except to the extent that the Territory Information is:

The Project Sponsor must take all reasonable measures to ensure that:

The Project Sponsor must immediately notify the Territory if the Project Sponsor becomes aware that:

The Project Sponsor acknowledges that the publication or communication of any fact or document by a person which has come to its knowledge or into its possession or custody by virtue of the performance of this Agreement (other than to a person to whom the Project Sponsor is authorised to publish or disclose the fact or document) may be an offence under section 153 of the Crimes Act 1900 (ACT), the maximum penalty for which is 2 years imprisonment.

The Project Sponsor must effect and maintain for the Term:

The Project Sponsor must, at its expense, make good the amount of all claims, loss, damage, costs and expenses the subject of the indemnity in clause 12.2.

Notwithstanding clause 3.2, the parties may terminate this Agreement with 14 days' written notice to the other party.

The Territory may terminate this Agreement by written notice, if:

In the event of the Agreement being terminated, the Territory will not be liable for any costs incurred by the Project Sponsor under this Agreement or the Funding Agreement.

The parties will be responsible for their own costs associated with the termination of this Agreement.

In the event of any question, issue or dispute (Issue) arising in relation to this Agreement, including with respect to a School Chaplain, the parties will endeavour to meet and agree on a course of dealing to resolve the Issue.

Notwithstanding clause 14.1, in relation to any issue arising in respect of a student, which in the opinion of the Territory, the Territory considers to be of a serious nature, the Territory will have complete discretion in relation to how such an Issue is resolved, including immediately suspending the involvement of the Chaplain at the School.

Any provision of this Agreement that is illegal, void or unenforceable will not form part of this Agreement to the extent of that illegality, voidness or unenforceability.

This Agreement may be varied only by the written agreement of the parties prior to the expiration of this Agreement.

Failure or omission by the Territory at any time to enforce or require strict or timely compliance with any provision of this Agreement will not affect or impair that provision in any way or the rights and remedies that the Territory may have in respect of that provision.

The Project Sponsor must comply with the laws from time to time in force in the Territory in performing the Chaplaincy Services.

Any notice, including any other communication, required to be given or sent to either party under this Agreement must be in writing and given to the relevant Contract Officer.

12.2 and 12.3 will survive the expiration or earlier termination of this Agreement.

In this Item "liability, loss or expense" includes any amount paid by the Territory on behalf of the Commonwealth for an interference with the privacy of an individual being a reasonable amount as compensation for loss or damage for which the Commonwealth would have been liable under the Privacy Act 1988 (Cwlth) if that breach had been that of the Territory.

(1) or (2) above, it will keep the Project Sponsor informed of all progress with the Complaint concerning the actions of the Project Sponsor.

(s) of any of the third-party Web Search and Indexing organisations shall not be cause to delay Site Handover and final payment.

This Agreement commences on the date the last party signs, and, subject to clause 3.3, will continue for the duration of the Candidature as governed by the normal Rules applicable at both institutions.

Without limiting clause 3.1, this Agreement will be terminated in any of the following circumstances:

The Candidature will be undertaken partly at each Institution, in accordance with the arrangements specified in Item 4.

The Candidate, while enrolled at either Institution, will be subject to the normal Rules applicable at that institution.

Each Institution must, as appropriate, provide the Candidate with suitable orientation, including as to the cultural and academic expectations (including rules and discipline) applicable at that Institution.

Subject to clause 5.3, the supervision arrangements specified in Item 7 will apply.

All Supervisors must comply with the normal Rules applicable to supervisors and supervision at their respective Institutions.

Without limiting clause 7.1, the Institutions will endeavour to offer non-financial assistance to the Candidate as specified in Item 10, provided that ultimate responsibility remains with the Candidate.

The Candidate must complete:

Subject to clause 9.2, all Intellectual Property will be owned as set out in Item 16.

Despite anything contained in Item 16, the Candidate will own copyright in the thesis they complete in accordance with clause 8.1(a).

The award of the Conjoint Doctoral Degree will be evidenced in accordance with the testamur requirements specified in Item 17.

patents, copyright, future copyright, trade business, company or domain names, rights in relation to circuit layouts, plant breeders rights, registered designs, registered and unregistered trade marks, know how, trade secrets and the right to have confidential information kept confidential, any and all other rights to intellectual property which may subsist anywhere in the world; and

The parties must comply with, and conduct the Study in accordance with the Protocol and any condition of the Responsible HREC.

If the Principal Investigator fails to carry out those obligations specified in clauses 3.3(2), (3), (5), (8), (10), (11), (13) ,(15), then the Institution must itself perform those obligations and rectify and make good any breach.

The Institution will not engage in any conduct on the Sponsor's behalf which is in violation of, or potentially in violation of, any applicable local or foreign laws or regulations.

The Institution must have adequate security measures to ensure the safety and integrity of the Investigational Product, Essential Documents and Study records and reports, Equipment and any Study related materials held or located at the Study Site.

Subject to clause 9, the Institution will allow regular monitoring visits in accordance with the GCP Guideline, access for the purposes of audit and as required by Regulatory Authorities or as specified in the Protocol and permit access to the Essential Documents (including original records), Study records, reports, other Study related materials and its Personnel as soon as is reasonably possible upon request by the Sponsor, Regulatory Authority, Responsible HREC or any third party designated by the Sponsor.

The Institution will make available adequate facilities, equipment and any other resource of the Institution reasonably required to safely follow the Protocol, provided that any amendments to the Protocol which take place after the execution of this Agreement and requiring any additional use of facilities, equipment, staff or resources, have been approved in writing by the Institution and the Responsible HREC.

The Institution will have an adequate number of appropriately qualified Personnel for the foreseen duration of the Study and ensure that such Personnel are adequately informed about the Protocol, Investigational Product(s), and their Study related duties and functions.

The Institution must retain and preserve a copy of all Study Materials, including copies of signed consent forms, Case Report Forms, Protocol, information relating to the Investigational Product, correspondence and investigator files for at least 15 years from Study Completion and must ensure that no Study related materials are destroyed before the expiration of this time period without the written approval of Sponsor.

The Sponsor will implement and maintain quality assurance and quality control systems with written standard operating procedures to ensure that the Study can be conducted and data generated, documented, recorded and reported in compliance with all of the documents referred to in clause 2.

The Sponsor will designate appropriately qualified personnel to advise on Study-related medical questions or problems.

The Sponsor will monitor the application of the Investigational Product in other places (both within and outside Australia) and advise the Institution, through the Principal Investigator and TGA of the cessation elsewhere of any relevant trial, or the withdrawal of the Investigational Product from any other market for safety reasons.

The Sponsor will notify the Institution of any Adverse Events (including Serious Adverse Events) that occur during the course of the Study (either at the Study Site or other study sites, including overseas sites) which may require alteration of the conduct of the Study, or which may affect the rights, interests, safety or well-being of Study Subjects.

The Sponsor will cooperate with the Institution and/or the Responsible HREC in investigating any Adverse Event (including Serious Adverse Event) arising out of or in connection with the Study.

To assist the Institution to comply with clause 8, the Sponsor will provide the Institution with adequate information and all necessary product accountability forms.

The Sponsor will provide indemnity to the Institution and members of the Responsible HREC against claims arising from the Study on the terms and conditions set out in the relevant Medicines Australia Form of Indemnity for Clinical Trials as set out in Schedule 3.

The Sponsor will comply with the Medicines Australia Guidelines for Compensation for Injury Resulting from Participation in a Company-sponsored Trial as specified in Schedule 5.

In consideration of the Institution conducting the Study, the Sponsor will pay to the Institution as nominated in Schedule 2 in the manner and on the basis of the prices and at the times set out in Schedule 2.

If a Study Subject discontinues their participation in the Study or if the Study is terminated as a whole, only those costs incurred up until the date of discontinuation or termination, including costs of final visit and completion of all Case Report Forms, will be paid.

Payments will be made by the Sponsor upon either receipt of a valid tax invoice or a "Recipient Created Tax Invoice" issued by the Sponsor.

The final payment will be made following Study Completion.

The Sponsor will provide the Institution and Principal Investigator with the Equipment at the Sponsor's expense.

The Equipment will be at the risk of the Sponsor, but the Institution will take reasonable care in the use and secure storage of the same.

The Sponsor will be responsible for arranging and paying for any required Internet connection as necessary to use the Equipment.

At the completion of the Study or at the Sponsor's request, the Institution will, unless otherwise specified, return to Sponsor, at the Sponsor's expense, the Equipment and all related training materials and documentation.

The Sponsor will cooperate with the Institution in maintaining, at the Sponsor's expense, the Equipment in good working order, and ensuring that it is in a safe condition and compliant with the requirements of the relevant licensing and safety authorities at all times.

The Sponsor will supply the Principal Investigator with such quantities of the Investigational Product as will be required for the purpose of the Study.

In the event of termination, the Institution must promptly return (or destroy if requested by the Sponsor, and provide evidence of such destruction) to the Sponsor any unused Investigational Product.

Subject to clause 9.2, the Parties must not, and must ensure their Personnel do not, use or disclose any Confidential Information, other than where and only to the extent such use or disclosure is necessary for the performance of the Study.

The Institution may use or disclose Confidential Information in any of the following circumstances:

Where Confidential Information is disclosed in accordance with clause 9.2(1) or 9.2(4), the Confidential Information must only be used in connection with the legitimate purposes of the Institution, and only disclosed to those who have a need to know it for such purposes and are obligated to keep the information confidential.

The parties must ensure that any Personal Information arising from the Study regarding Study Subjects or Personnel, is collected, stored, used and disclosed in accordance with the Relevant Privacy Laws.

If the Study is a Multi-centre Study, then the Institution agrees that no Publication of the Study results may be made until Publication of the results of the Multi-centre Study or 2 years after Study Completion, whichever is the sooner.

The Institution must ensure that the Discloser gives notice of any proposed Publication drafted by them and/or other Personnel involved in the conduct of the Study to the Sponsor at least 40 days before any forwarding to a party that is not bound by the confidentiality obligations set out in clause 9.

The Sponsor may, within that 40-day period do any one or more of the following:

If the Institution has not received any comments from the Sponsor on the proposed Publication within 40 days of giving notice to the Sponsor under clause 11.3, the Discloser may proceed to make the Publication.

Where the Sponsor intends to Publish the method, results or conclusions from the Study, any person named as an author on that Publication or otherwise noted as the Principal Investigator or an investigator of the Study in the Publication, will be given a reasonable opportunity to review the Publication and request the removal of his or her name from the Publication and the Sponsor shall comply with any such request.

In all Publications the Sponsor's support of the Study shall be acknowledged.

The Sponsor may Publish a summary of the Study Results and conclusions on the Sponsor's on-line Clinical Trial Register before or after Publication by another method.

The Sponsor may freely use, copy and disseminate any manuscript following its Publication in a journal without further obligation to the Institution or Discloser.

In order to carry out the Study, the Institution may use Intellectual Property which is part of the Institution's Background Intellectual Property.

Subject to clause 12.2, all Intellectual Property in the Study Materials will vest automatically upon its creation in the Sponsor, and the Institution presently assigns to the Sponsor all existing and future Intellectual Property rights (including all future copyright) contained in the Study Materials.

Either the Sponsor or the Institution may terminate this Agreement with 30 days prior written notice or such shorter time period as is reasonably required in the circumstances if the other party:

In addition to clause 13.2, a party may terminate this Agreement immediately by written notice to the other party if it believes on reasonable grounds that:

The Sponsor may terminate this Agreement with 30 days prior written notice to the Institution.

In the event of termination, the Institution must promptly initiate all appropriate action to close the Study and, subject to any applicable retention requirements imposed by law, return to the Sponsor (or destroy if requested by the Sponsor, and provide evidence of such destruction) any completed Case Report Forms and other materials received from the Sponsor before Study Completion.

In the event of termination the Sponsor must take all appropriate action to close out the Study Site in a timely manner.

In the event of early termination, the Sponsor will cooperate with the Institution to ensure that Study Subjects who may be affected by termination receive adequate medical care.

No party may commence legal proceedings against another in respect of a dispute arising in relation to this Agreement (except for urgent interlocutory relief) unless the parties have complied with this clause and that party has first notified the other party in writing of the dispute and has used all reasonable endeavours to resolve the dispute with the other party within 28 days of the giving of that notice ("Initial Period").

If the dispute is not resolved within the Initial Period, then the dispute shall be referred within a further 28 days to the Australian Commercial Disputes Centre for mediation or any other agreed venue which conducts mediation.

Each party must bear its own costs of resolving a dispute under this clause, and unless the parties otherwise agree, the parties to the dispute must bear equally the costs of the mediator.

A notice, consent, approval or other communication (each a notice) under this Agreement must be:

Failure or delay by any party to enforce any provision of this Agreement will not be deemed to be a waiver by that party of any right in respect of any other such breach.

Subject to clause 19.2, a party may not assign its rights or obligations under this Agreement without the prior written consent of the other party, such consent not to be unreasonably withheld.

A party may assign the benefit of this Agreement necessitated by the merger or sale of all or substantially all of its assets, provided it obtains from the relevant assignee a written undertaking in favour of the other party to be bound by the terms of this Agreement.

If a party assigns this Agreement under clause 19.2, and the relevant assignee is determined by the non-assigning party, in its discretion, as unsuitable to perform its obligations under this Agreement, that party may terminate the Agreement in accordance with clause 13.2(3).

The Sponsor may subcontract any of its obligations under this Agreement, save for the obligations set out in clauses 5.1(8), 5.1(9) and 5.1(10) of the Agreement.

No subcontractor will have any rights under this Agreement against the Institution or be entitled to receive any payment from the Institution.

During the period of probation, either party may terminate the employment by providing to the other party 7 days written notice, or in the case of the Council, a payment in lieu of notice or a combination of notice and a payment in lieu of notice.

It is a condition of this Agreement that the Local Government Cadet meet the work objectives outlined in the performance agreement, failure to do so will permit the Council to terminate the Employment in accordance with clause 15.

The Council may require evidence of expenses incurred by the Local Government Cadet.

The Local Government Cadet will pay for the text books required to complete his/ her Approved Course of Study.

Claims for payment of Compulsory Education Expenses must be made within a six (6) month period of time of their incursion.

The Local Government Cadet must, at the conclusion of a subject in the Local Government Cadet's course of study, provide the Council with an official statement from the University or educational institution concerned indicating passes in the subjects studied, for which a claim for payment of Compulsory Education Expenses has or is being made.

The usual hours of work of the Local Government Cadet will be xxxxx to xxxxx with a 1 hour lunch break.

The Local Government Cadet shall work a 19 day month so that the Local Government Cadet shall have one rostered day off (RDO) in each four week period.

Where requested by the Council, the Local Government Cadet may be required to work on an RDO and such time worked shall be accumulated up to a maximum of five (5) days.

Where the Local Government Cadet works approved overtime, he/ she may chose to be paid at penalty rates or be given time off equivalent to time worked.

The Local Government Cadet warrants that to the best of the Local Government Cadet's knowledge that the use of the Materials by the Council will not infringe any Intellectual Property Rights of any third party.

If, in the opinion of the Chief Executive Officer of the Council, the Local Government Cadet's response to the show cause notice is unsatisfactory, the Chief Executive Officer may terminate the Employment in accordance with clause 15.1.

The Local Government Cadet will be liable to pay the cost (including legal expenses) (if any) incurred by the Chief Executive Officer in pursuing recovery of any amount payable by the Local Government Cadet in accordance with clause 15.4(a).

The amount payable under clause 15.4(a) must be paid to the Chief Executive Officer within 28 days of a written demand being made by the Chief Executive Officer to the Local Government Cadet for payment of those moneys.

The waiver by either party of a breach of any provision must not be held to be a waiver of any succeeding breach of the provision or a waiver of the provision itself.

(s) will be available or registrable in the Firm's name.

which referred to the FirmSite, and thereafter, Thomson will no longer host the FirmSite.

was already in the public domain, other than by reason of the Recipient having disclosed it, at the date on which it was used or disclosed by the Recipient, the onus of proving which shall be on the Recipient; or

Notwithstanding Clauses 2.3 (a) through (e), information disclosed by one party to another shall still be deemed Confidential Information of the Discloser subject to the protection of this Agreement if such disclosed information is:

(5) of the Act, and for the receipt of royalties which may be paid in accordance with such terms.

Nothing in this agreement must be construed as in any way limiting or derogating from rights enjoyed or provided to the (insert - Department/Agency) other than under section 183 of the Act to do, or authorise the doing of, acts comprised in the copyright in Music.

The (insert - Department/Agency) must pay to APRA a Royalty in respect of the Performance of Music by the (insert - Department/Agency) in each Financial Year during the term of this agreement.

The Department must notify APRA within 3 months after the commencement of each Financial Year of the number of its Full-Time Staff Equivalents for the immediately preceding Financial Year.

Subject to any arrangement which may be entered into from time to time between APRA and the (insert - Department/Agency) , each invoice must contain the following details:

This warranty applies in relation to any Music in the APRA Repertoire or which APRA represents to be in its Repertoire which is or may be included in any Performance by the (insert - Department/Agency) or authorised by the (insert - Department/Agency) in accordance with clause 3.3 or 3.4 as the case may be during the term of this agreement.

APRA indemnifies the (insert - Department/Agency), and its officers, employees and agents from and against all actions, claims, demands, costs and expenses (including the costs of defending or settling any action, claim or demand where such costs include legal costs and expenses on a solicitor and own client basis) made, sustained, brought or prosecuted in any manner based upon, occasioned by or attributable to any infringement, or alleged infringement, of the copyright of any person, which infringement or alleged infringement occurred by reason of the Performance of Music by the (insert - Department/Agency) and by those authorised persons authorised by the (insert - Department/Agency) in accordance with clause 3.3 or 3.4 as the case may be during the term of this agreement.

For the purposes of this clause, infringement means an unauthorised Performance, which would, but for the operation of section 183 of the Act or clause 3.3 or 3.4, constitute an infringement.

This agreement may be terminated by the (insert - Department/Agency) by notice to APRA, specifying the date of termination, if:

In the event of the coming into operation of any amendment to section 183 of the Act with respect to the subject matter of this agreement, this agreement will terminate immediately.

Any notice or other communication which may be given to or served on APRA under this agreement will be deemed to have been duly given or served if it is in writing and signed by or on behalf of the (insert - Department/Agency) by the (insert - designated contact - in the AGD agreement it is the Secretary) and it is either delivered by hand or posted, or a copy is transmitted electronically to APRA at the address for APRA which appears below or such other address as may be notified to the (insert - Department/Agency) from time to time by APRA:

A notification of a dispute or other communication sent by facsimile transmission will be deemed to have been given when the machine on which it is sent reports in writing that it has been transmitted satisfactorily.

(b) of the CAA, the Arbitrator may decline so to act without being subject to a claim of misconduct for so declining and without prejudice to his being and continuing as Arbitrator by reason of so declining.

(s) and/or provide to any insurer of the Customer's commercial credit personal information held on the Customer for the particular purpose for which it is properly required (this can include creditworthiness, credit standing, credit history, credit capacity and loan indebtedness that credit providers are permitted to give or receive from each other under the Privacy Legislation);

days of any change whatsoever in ownership structure and, further, hereby indemnifies the Supplier against any loss or damage that may result from the Customer's failure to notify the Supplier of any such change.

Business Days of the Non-Compliance Day, the Business will advise the Supplier in writing of the rejection and the reasons for such rejection and request that the Supplier advise as to whether the Supplier:

(a) or (b) above as applicable]   In the event that neither (a) or (b) are struck out, (a) will apply.]

This Agreement shall be binding upon:

Unless expressly stated the provisions of this agreement shall apply to all Players employed by an NRL Club.

In the event of any grievance between a Player and an NRL Club, the following procedure will be followed:

if the matter is still not able to be resolved, the NRL Club and the Player concerned may agree to refer the matter to:

A Player who is a party to a grievance must, while the grievance is being resolved continue to work in accordance with his Playing Contract, unless the Player has a reasonable concern about an imminent risk to his health or safety.

Players may be entitled to a minimum remuneration package in accordance with this clause which:

Each NRL Club must ensure that, during each Season:

A Player who is not a Top 25 Player will be entitled to a minimum payment of $2,000 for each NRL Competition match he participates in until his remuneration paid reaches $50,000 for a Season.

Subject to subclause 8.5, if a Player, who is not a Top 25 Player, trains for a cumulative period of more than six weeks in the NRL Full Time Squad during the period from the first trial game to the Grand Final (but not for the full Season), (whether the Player plays in an NRL Competition match or not) the Player will be entitled to receive a Minimum Remuneration Package (excluding match fees) of at least $25,000 from the NRL Club for that Season.

At least $10,000 of a Player's Minimum Remuneration Package required under subclause 8.4 must relate to education and/or traineeship payments ('Education Payment') which must be utilised on the following terms:

(i) and (ii), the Minimum Remuneration Package (excluding match fees) payable to the Player under clause 8.4 (ie the $25,000) will be reduced by the 'balance' referred to in clause 8.5(b)(ii).

If a Player, who is not a Top 25 Player, is training for a period of six weeks or less in the NRL Full Time Squad during a Season, the Player will be entitled to the greater of:

The NRL Clubs and the Players recognise the importance of a Salary Cap and acknowledge that the Salary Cap limits, in a reasonable way, the remuneration that may be paid by, or on behalf of, any one NRL Club to its Players.

From the 2007 Season, each NRL Club must expend $3.5 million each Season in its Total Club Salary Cap.

Each Player at an NRL Club who is notified by an NRL Club that they are a Top Six Player for the purposes of this clause must also keep this information confidential.

Each NRL Club shall arrange hospital and medical benefits insurance cover for each of its Players.

Where a Player receives medical treatment pursuant to clause 12.2 following the completion of his Playing Contract the Player must ensure that he personally maintains top-level medical insurance during the period of injury treatment and remediation.

If a Player commences playing or training for another rugby league team or undertakes any other endeavour which unreasonably increases the risk of further injury prior to the treatment and remediation being completed, the NRL Club's responsibilities in relation to the injury remediation will cease.

Each NRL Club will provide to each of its Players who participate in an NRL Competition match:

NRL Clubs will use reasonable endeavours to secure the benefits set out in clause 13.1 above for Players at away NRL Competition matches.

Each NRL Club will pay for all reasonable travel and accommodation expenses incurred by a Player of that NRL Club in the authorised performance of his obligations under his Playing Contract, other than for day to day travel to and from the Player's regular training ground or other NRL Club functions.

Where a Player has been injured at an away game involving air travel and the NRL Club's Medical Officer is of the opinion that special travel arrangements are necessary for the Player's comfort and/or recuperation, the Player's NRL Club agrees to use its best endeavours to liaise with the NRL travel agency and/or airline in an attempt to secure suitable return travel arrangements which may, depending on the type of injury, include the provision of seating with additional leg room (such as that afforded by seating fronting on to an exit or seating in the business class section) provided such seating is available on the flight on which the Player is scheduled to travel, with any additional cost being met by the Player's NRL Club.

Subject to clause 15.2, NRL Clubs must make available a minimum of $33,000 per annum in education and welfare benefits in respect of the NRL Club's Players in accordance with education and welfare guidelines determined by the NRL/RLPA Education and Welfare Committee, from time to time.

In the case of hardship, the NRL/RLPA Education and Welfare Committee may, on application by an NRL Club, reduce the minimum amount of education and welfare benefits required to be made available by the NRL Club.

A Player must use and must be given any annual leave and long service leave entitlement in a minimum period of leave from all training and playing obligations with his NRL Club:

In addition to the leave in clause 16.2, a Player shall also be entitled to a period of leave commencing on 23 December and ceasing on 3 January of the following year.

A further period of leave may be provided to a Player by agreement with his NRL Club.

A Player's entitlement to leave will not accrue from year to year, other than in relation to personal/carer's leave as required by the Act.

In addition to other normal NRL Club or NRL game development or promotion activities, as part of their obligations under their Players must participate in ARL Development events designed to promote the growth of the game at grass roots level.

Pre-approved travel and accommodation expenses will be met by the Player's NRL Club unless it is met by the NRL or ARL Development.

Where a Player is represented by an Agent in the negotiation of a Playing Contract, that contract must not be lodged for registration with the NRL by the Player or his NRL Club unless the Agent was at the time of the negotiations properly accredited pursuant to the Agent Accreditation Scheme in place from time to time.

The Players agree that they will not sue or support, financially, administratively or otherwise, any suit against an NRL Club with respect to any claim relating to conduct by the NRL Club permitted by this Agreement or the current NRL Rules (including all Schedules and Guidelines to the NRL Rules).

No party to this Agreement shall be entitled to take any industrial action during the term of this Agreement.

It is a term of this Agreement that the Players will not pursue any extra claims for improvement in wages or other terms and conditions of employment for the duration of this Agreement.

The parties agree that the wage increases and other improvements in conditions of employment provided for by this Agreement are in lieu of any improvements in wages or conditions of employment provided for under any decision or standard of the Australian Fair Pay Commission, the Australian Industrial Relations Commission or any other court, commission or tribunal handed down or issued prior to or during the life of this Agreement and no claim can be made for any such increase during or after the term of this Agreement.

The Players agree that they will not take protected action for the duration of this Agreement.

The Student must not, without the University's written consent, deal with the Intellectual Property in a manner which is inconsistent with the provisions of this Deed.

Where the Student is entitled to received payment under clause 4.1 of this Deed, that payment will be paid to the Student in arrears on calendar quarters starting on the calendar quarter after the University received the first payment from which the Student will receive a payment.

The Student will be responsible for any personal tax implications as a result of payments or equity received pursuant to this clause 4.0.

chosen at item 1(a) above, then this item should be completed "Not Applicable"

4.3 and 4.4, within 3 months of the termination of the Original Commonwealth Agreement the Researcher must pay to the company or agent that will sign the New Commonwealth Agreement on behalf of the Extension CRC (the Recipient) the Unexpended Grant Amount.

4.1 will not have been properly made if:

to 4.5, upon the written request of the Researcher the Commonwealth may, at its absolute discretion, permit the monies that would otherwise be required to be paid to the Recipient or the Commonwealth in accordance with clause 4.2 to be retained by the Researcher to be used in accordance with a purpose agreed by the Commonwealth and permitted under the terms of the Original Commonwealth Agreement.

4.6 and monies so retained by the Researcher under clause 4.6 are not fully used for the purpose agreed to by the Commonwealth within any timeframe for such use specified by the Commonwealth, or are used for a purpose not permitted by the Commonwealth, the Researcher must pay immediately to the Commonwealth the portion of those monies that are not used in accordance with the agreed purpose, such amount being a debt due to the Commonwealth without further proof of the debt being provided by the Commonwealth.

In addition to any clauses that either expressly or by implication survive the termination of the Original Commonwealth Agreement, the indemnity provided by the Researcher under clause 20 of the Original Commonwealth Agreement will survive the termination of the Original Commonwealth Agreement.

Consultations between the Commission and its employees on a replacement agreement will commence prior to the expiry date of this Agreement.

The Commission in consultation with an employee or employees and their representatives may supplement pay and conditions of staff employed under this Agreement on either an individual or group basis to meet special workplace or operational circumstances and/or flexibilities.

Any variations to this Agreement will be made pursuant to Clause 2A of Schedule 7 of the Workplace Relations Act or sections 113(2A), 170MD(6)(a) or 298Z of the pre-reform Workplace Relations Act .

(i) Without prejudice to the position of any party to a dispute and except where a bona fide safety issue is involved, work shall continue normally and work practices shall be in accordance with agreements at the workplace.

(s) will discuss the matter which is the subject of the dispute with the supervisor or manager.

may initially discuss the matter with more senior levels of management; and

in dispute may be referred to the AIRC.

above, either or both parties to a dispute acting together (including through a chosen representative) may refer the specific matter or matter(s) in dispute to the AIRC.

The President may delegate any or all of his or her powers and functions under this Agreement, including the power of delegation and may do so subject to conditions but no such delegation shall prevent the personal exercise by the President of a power or function so delegated.

must comply with Commission policies and use the resources, equipment and facilities of the Commission in a proper and lawful manner, recognising the particular nature of the Commission's role and functions.

must seek approval if they wish to engage in outside employment.

13.1 and 13.2 above, will be dealt with in accordance with the procedures established by the President pursuant to relevant provisions of the Public Service Act 1999, Public Service Commissioner's Directions and the Public Service Regulations 1999 and principles governing the application of natural justice.

Annual assessment of an employee's performance will be the basis of salary progression within the pay points assigned to their classification and may also be taken into account:

If the Commission introduces performance-based pay, it will be allocated on the basis of the performance assessment under this scheme.

15.2 and 15.3),operational priorities and resource capacity will be taken into account.

There may be occasions when an employee's performance is consistently falling below the expected standard, even though the employee's supervisor has taken measures to overcome the problems as part of his or her day-to-day management responsibilities.

Additional salary increases outlined below may be paid if:

An employee shall not be considered to be temporarily assigned duties at a higher classification except where the period exceeds 5 days or in the case of operational type positions such lesser period as determined by the Executive Director.

An employee who has been temporarily assigned duties at a higher level and has been assessed under the Commission's Performance Management Scheme to receive a salary increase within the higher classification level may retain that salary point on promotion.

For the purpose of calculating the formula at 22.2 prescribed weekly hours before overtime is payable will be 36 3/4.

Executive Level employees: Except with the approval of the Commission, an Executive Level 1 or Executive Level 2 shall not be subject to the provisions of clause 22.

Time-off-in-lieu: Where the Commission and an employee agree, time off in lieu of payment for overtime may be taken, with the time off accrued at the overtime multiplier, within four weeks or such other agreed period from the time of working the overtime.

Monday to Saturday: Overtime worked Monday to Saturday will be paid at time and a half for the first 3 hours each day and double time thereafter.

Public holiday: Overtime on a Public Holiday will be paid at time and a half during standard hours and double time and a half outside of standard hours (as defined in Clause 27).

All applications for part-time work must be in writing and are subject to the Commission's Part-time Work Policy.

Proposals for part-time work may be initiated by managers.

Executive Level 2 employees shall have access to flexleave where agreed with their direct supervisor and the Executive Director.

Where consistent with client service and other operational requirements, an employee may request the Commission to approve home based work on either an on-going or temporary basis.

Guidelines for on-going arrangements, including criteria for approval, security and OH&S requirements, will provide for a simple and cost effective scheme that does not compromise excellence in service and confidentiality to clients and employees.

Approval for home-based work shall be subject to client service and operational needs being met after consideration of the effect of the proposal on individual workloads and the work area as a whole.

A temporary arrangement may only be approved where it is agreed at the outset that it is for a short and fixed period only.

Any on-going or temporary arrangement may be terminated by the Commission for reasons such as ineffectiveness of the arrangement, or failure of the employee to comply with requirements.

Working from home is not a child care option and arrangements will not be approved where it is more appropriate for the employee to use personal leave or work part-time.

Employees will be eligible to apply for a three month unpaid career break scheme after they have been employed for 5 years and for a further three months unpaid for each subsequent 5 year period.

Annual leave shall be taken at such a time or times and in such a period or periods as may be agreed between the employee and the employee's supervisor.

The maximum annual leave credit an employee may accumulate is 6 weeks (inclusive of accrued and pro-rata entitlements).

An employee who has accessed at least fifteen days annual leave in any twelve month period and has an accrual of at least five further days annual leave may, at the request of the employee, be paid out five days annual leave in lieu of absence from the workplace.

An employee will not be entitled to paid personal/carer's leave while also entitled to paid leave under the Maternity Leave (Commonwealth Employees) Act 1973.

An application for personal / carer's leave for a period of three or more consecutive days shall be accompanied by a certificate from a registered health practitioner or a statutory declaration made by the employee.

Conversion: Any existing entitlements to half-pay sick leave shall be converted to full-pay personal / carer's leave on a 2:1 ratio.

In order to provide a more flexible administration of maternity leave an employee may elect to receive payment for their maternity leave (including the additional six weeks leave under clause 38.3) at half pay.

The Commission may request reasonable proof in support of an application, which may include a statutory declaration.

An employee may request additional unpaid leave up to a further 52 weeks following their maternity leave or parental leave where they are the primary carer.

For operational planning purposes requests for this additional leave should be made, where possible, at the commencement of the maternity or parental leave period.

An employee may request in writing to return to work during this period on a date earlier than previously approved.

Employees resuming duty after this period of leave will return to the same classification level they held prior to their maternity or parental leave.

When the Commission is aware that an employee is likely to become excess, the Commission will advise the employee of the situation at the earliest practicable time.

Where the excess employee agrees to be voluntarily retrenched the Commission may terminate the employment of the employee by giving the required notice of termination of employment under s.29 of the Public Service Act 1999.

For earlier periods of service to count there must be no breaks between the periods of service, except where:

Any period or service which ceased through termination of employment on the following grounds will not count as service for redundancy pay purposes:

Absences from work which do not count as service for long service leave purposes will not count as service for severance pay purposes.

above, an employee has been unable to resolve the matter in discussion with his or her supervisor or, where it is not appropriate to discuss the matter with his or her supervisor, the employee may request an internal (primary) review of the matter.

Where a primary review is to be conducted by Commission, the following procedures and principles shall apply:

A request from an employee for an internal review of a matter should also:

An employee who is required to be absent overnight from the employee's usual place of work on official business, under clause 58.1 will be paid, prior to undertaking the travel, in accordance with the Australian Taxation Office rulings on reasonable daily travel allowance amounts (equivalent non-SES rates).

58.4 and 58.6 is either insufficient to cover, or in excess of, expenses which have been, or may be, incurred, the Commission may direct the payment in lieu of that allowance as is necessary to meet those expenses.

An employee required to travel on official business overseas will be provided with a recoverable cash advance to meet reasonable accommodation, meal and incidental expenses.

59.4 will include, but not be limited to:

Where the employer and employee wish to establish a continuing employment relationship following the completion of the trial period, a further contract of employment shall be entered into based on the outcome of assessment under clause 4 of this appendix.

The Business Host agrees that the Activities will be conducted in accordance with the Learning Plan agreed to between the University, Student/s and the Business Host.

The Supervisor shall be an experienced member of the Business Host's staff and will be responsible for giving the Students a tour of the Business Hosts operations, ensuring the Students are aware of all emergency procedures.

The Business Host will make available to the Student (and University staff involved in the Activities) written administrative guidelines, policies, rules, regulations, protocols, procedures, by-laws and any other information relevant to Students and University staff in connection with Activities to be conducted under this Agreement.

The Business Host will provide the Students with appropriate accommodation and access to its equipment, systems and information commensurate with the requirements of the Student f or the Activities.

The Business Host will ensure that the Supervisor will meet with the Students regularly in accordance with the Learning Plan to provide support and guidance in relation to the Activities and to update the Students on their progress.

The Business Host agrees that it will pay and be liable for all reasonable costs and expenses associated with Students performing the Activities, such costs may include travel, accommodation and purchase of commercial data.

The University agrees that Students may undertake the Activities with the Business Host, either as an individual or as part of a team of other Students and/or University staff.

The University will provide support and facilities that it has agreed to under the Learning Plan.

The University will effect and maintain the following insurance policies: public liability and professional indemnity cover for an amount of at least $AUD10 million respectively for each event insuring the University, University Staff and Students engaged in the Activities while at the Company; personal accident insurance cover for Students; and Workers' Compensation cover of an unlimited amount for University Staff

Each party will continue to own its own Background Intellectual Property.

The Business Host acknowledges that any Developed IP will be jointly owned by the University and the Business Host.

Notwithstanding any other provisions of this clause the University will have the right to:

Notwithstanding any other provisions of this clause, the Business Host acknowledges and agrees that the UWS Student will have the right to:

UWS Student Confidentiality: Subject to clause 5.2, the University will use reasonable endeavours to ensure that UWS Students agree to keep confidential all Confidential Information that comes into his/her possession or knowledge by virtue of their participation in an Activity for a period of three (3) years following completion of their UWS Degree.

Examiner Confidentiality: The Business Host must not prevent the Student from presenting a paper, dissertation, thesis or other assignment ("Assessment") that refers to any Activity for examination purposes, provided appropriate steps are taken to ensure the protection of Business Host's Confidential Information.

Business Host and the University Confidentiality: The University and the Business Host acknowledge that they may become aware of Confidential Information of the other party through the supervision of the Student as contemplated by these Terms, and agree to keep any such Confidential Information confidential for a period of three (3) years following conclusion of any Activities to which that Confidential Information relates.

Notwithstanding any other provision of these Terms a party will not be liable to another party for and in respect of all claims for consequential, indirect or special damages including but not limited to loss of business profits, anticipatory profits, business interruption or loss of business information.

Before resorting to external dispute resolution mechanisms, the parties will attempt to settle by negotiation any dispute in relation to these Terms including by referring the matter to personnel who may have authority to intervene and direct some form of resolution.

If a dispute is not settled by the parties within 10 working days of one party first sending to the other party written notice that they are in dispute, the dispute may be submitted to some alternative dispute resolution mechanism as may be agreed in writing between the parties.

Notwithstanding clause 9.1 and 9.2, if a dispute arises as a result of the Student's misconduct, as that term is defined in the University's Student Misconduct policies, as amended, the Business Host agrees that the University will resolve the dispute in accordance with the procedure set out in the relevant University policy, as amended.

The Author will obtain, at the Author's expense, consents releases or permissions in relation to illustrations, photographs and other third party material used in the Work.

The following documents must carry the copyright notice in subclause 6.1:

2.2 or clause 2.2.3 applies, the Service Provider will provide replacement Personnel acceptable to the Agency at no additional cost and at the earliest opportunity.

1.1 will be reduced proportionately to the extent that any act or omission involving fault on the part of the Agency or its Personnel contributed to the relevant cost, liability, loss, damage or expense.

This Agreement shall be known as the NRL/RLPA Agreement 2007.

may be comprised of sign-on fees, playing fees, match fees, bonus payments or any other benefit as specifically identified in the special conditions section of the Player's Playing Contract or any variation to that Playing Contract; and

This Agreement shall be binding on:

If the RLPA incorporates under the Associations Incorporation Act 1984 (NSW) ('AIA'), the RLPA and the RLPA Officers must take all steps necessary to ensure that this Agreement is ratified by the RLPA and the RLPA Officers in accordance with section 32 of the AIA, as soon as possible, and no more than seven days, after such incorporation.

This Agreement shall operate on and from 1 November 2006 until 31 October 2010, unless:

Any discussions in relation to the renewal of this Agreement shall commence at least six months prior to the nominal expiry date of 31 October 2010.

The NRL and the RLPA will comply with the following Communications Protocol:

in the case of urgent issues, the RLPA will make every effort to contact the NRL and discuss issues as they arise, so as to ensure both the NRL and RLPA are fully abreast of all aspects of the issue, prior to making comments to the media;

in the case of urgent issues relating to the RLPA, the NRL will make every effort to contact the RLPA and discuss issues as they arise, so as to ensure both the NRL and RLPA are fully abreast of all aspects of the issue, prior to making comments to the media.

Where the NRL proposes to amend the NRL Rules (including any Schedules or Guidelines to the NRL Rules) and such amendments will directly affect the interests of Players, the NRL shall advise the RLPA of its intention to do so.

In any case where the NRL has advised the RLPA of its intention to amend the NRL Rules (including any Schedules to the NRL Rules), the RLPA shall be afforded a reasonable opportunity by the NRL to review the final draft of any change to the NRL Rules and to make submissions to it and/or consult with it concerning the proposed amendment.

In relation to any future broadcasting or internet rights arrangements, the NRL will include the RLPA in consultation to the same extent it includes the NRL Clubs in discussions in respect of such arrangements.

The RLPA shall, in any case where the NRL requests it to do so, afford the NRL a reasonable opportunity to address the Board of the RLPA or the members of the RLPA in general meeting.

Where a grievance arises between the RLPA and the NRL, they shall confer with a view to resolving the grievance.

The NRL will require that NRL Clubs only use the NRL Club Grant made to each NRL Club each Season for the purpose of paying Remuneration to their Players.

If an NRL Club goes into liquidation or some other form of insolvency, the NRL, in consultation with the RLPA, will use its best efforts to ensure that all Players who were contracted to that NRL Club obtain a Playing Contract with another NRL Club.

In fulfilling this commitment, the NRL agrees that, if it determines that such action is appropriate in the circumstances, it will introduce a special Salary Cap exemption, after consultation with the RLPA.

The NRL and the RLPA recognise the importance of a Salary Cap and acknowledge that the Salary Cap limits, in a reasonable way, the remuneration that may be paid by, or on behalf of, any one NRL Club to its Players.

The NRL will increase the Total Club Salary Cap as follows:

For the avoidance of doubt, the Total Club Salary Cap figure will include the Salary Cap plus the Veteran Players Allowance, the Sponsor Servicing Allowance, NRL contributions to the Players Retirement Account in respect of that NRL Club and any amount remitted by the NRL to the RLPA, and will be subject to the PCR Rules.

The NRL agrees that for Seasons 2008, 2009 and 2010, if the NRL Club Grant is increased, the Total Club Salary Cap will be increased by at least 30% of the increase in the NRL Club Grant.

In the event that the NRL has a one-off net profit of greater than $10 million in any given Season (an 'Unexpected Net Profit'), the NRL will negotiate with the RLPA in relation to the percentage of the Unexpected Net Profit to be distributed to Players.

The SCA will provide a list detailing the names of the Top 25 Players, who have been nominated in each Club's Pre Season Statutory Declaration, to the Chief Executive of the RLPA within 14 days of the NRL receiving the Declaration.

The NRL will conduct an annual review of the above allowances in consultation with the RLPA.

The NRL will amend the PCR Rules so that the protocol set out in clauses 13.5 to 13.6 below will apply to any requirement of a Player to produce for the inspection of the SCA, or the NRL, personal financial records such as income tax returns, bank statements, group certificates or the like.

The protocol may only be used to request access to Player records which relate to his Remuneration.

For the avoidance of doubt, the NRL will not penalise any Player for his involvement in a Salary Cap breach, except in the case of an exceptional circumstance.

In any case where the SCA has good cause, through the existence of reliable evidence, to suspect that an NRL Club has failed to make complete disclosure to the SCA or to the NRL of the Remuneration paid to its Players, and after the SCA has used all other reasonably available means of verifying that Remuneration, the SCA may seek verification of the Remuneration paid to a particular Player or Players by that NRL Club in accordance with the following procedure:

if the SCR Committee determines that good cause exists, the SCA may proceed further, in accordance with the steps set forth in subclauses 13.5(e) to (m) below;

the Selected Chartered Accountant shall, in the presence of the Player and, if applicable, his representatives, examine the records produced in the presence of the Player and then return the documents to the Player;

The NRL agrees to issue Players with a guideline that explains and provides examples of the way in which Third Party Agreements (as that expression is defined in the PCR Rules) should operate.

If, after the above process has been followed, a Player wishes to review the determination made by the SCA concerning a Third Party Agreement, then the Player, or his duly appointed representative, may request a review by the SCR Committee to be conducted as described in clause 13.5(c).

The ACP Rules will be amended by the NRL so as to provide that the NRL Appeals Committee will be constituted as follows:

The NRL acknowledges that if, during the term of the Agreement, a new President of the NRL Appeals Committee needs to be appointed the NRL will consult with the RLPA prior to making such appointment.

Where the interests of a particular Player or Players in general might be affected by the outcome of a proceeding before the NRL Appeals Committee, other than appeals from decisions of the NRL Judiciary, the NRL Drugs Tribunal or any similar body exercising a disciplinary function over Players, and at least one of the Players whose interests might be affected wishes the RLPA to represent that Player, the RLPA will be entitled to seek leave to intervene and, if leave to intervene is granted by the President of the NRL Appeals Committee, the RLPA shall be entitled to be legally represented and to make submissions as to the outcome.

To remove any doubt, whilst the RLPA will not have an automatic right to intervene or a separate right to be heard in:

The NRL will conduct an annual review of the NRL Appeals Committee in consultation with the RLPA.

(s) of the RLPA may inspect the NRL's annual audited financial statements at the NRL's offices within 14 days of the NRL receiving a written request from the RLPA to do so and provided that the authorised representative provides an undertaking in relation to confidentiality in respect of the financial statements.

In addition to the representative payments provided for under clause 17.1, Players representing Australia will receive the following daily allowances: A$100 when in Australia, NZ$120 when in New Zealand and GBP

hereof) the costs, expenses and fees of the Arbitrator shall be in the discretion of the Arbitrator and he may direct what amount, to and by whom and in what manner and when the same or any part thereof shall be paid and may direct that the amount of such costs, expenses and fees, in the absence of agreement between the parties, be taxed or settled as between party and party or as between solicitor and client in the Court ;

2.2 or clause 2.2.3 applies, the Consultant will provide replacement Personnel acceptable to the Institute at no additional cost and at the earliest opportunity.

1.1 will be reduced proportionately to the extent that any act or omission involving fault on the part of the Institute or its Personnel contributed to the relevant cost, liability, loss, damage or expense.

days notice must be given for termination of this agreement.

does not and will not be deemed to have knowledge of the goods;

the Deposit (which will be refunded by cheque within 30 days of termination of this agreement); and

must not detach nails, screws etc to any part of the Space or physically alter it in anyway;

All monetary amounts referred to in this Agreement will be deemed to be in Australian currency.

This Agreement will commence on the date of last signature will remain in force until the first to occur of:

Each Project Participant must pay its cash Project Contributions to the Company at the times and in the manner specified in the Project Plan.

If any of the following requirements are not met to the satisfaction of a Project Participant that has provided cash Project Contributions (through no fault of that Project Participant), the Project Participant may withhold further cash Project Contributions until the following requirements are met to its satisfaction:

Project Contributions to a Project by Parties must be specified in the Project Details.

Each Party must make its non-cash Project Contributions available for the Project at the times and in the manner specified in the Project Plan.

The Company must make its non-cash Project Contributions available for the Project at the times and in the manner specified in the Project Details.

The valuation of non-cash Project Contributions for the purposes of this Agreement must be in accordance with the Valuation Principles and must exclude the value of Intellectual Property contributions.

Subject to clause 6.3, the Company must pay the Project Funds to the Project Participants in accordance with the Project Plan.

The Project Participants must use the Project Funds and other Project Contributions provided to them:

Each Party agrees to make its Specified Personnel available for the Project in accordance with arrangements agreed between the relevant Project Participant and the Company, which will include time commitment of Specified Personnel, responsibilities and provisions for management of conflicts.

Specified Personnel of each Project Participant will remain subject to the terms and conditions of employment of that Project Participant and will be replaced on reasonable request by the Company in accordance with the Commonwealth Agreement.

Each Party must ensure that any Project IP created by any of its Specified Personnel will be owned and dealt with according to the provisions of this Agreement.

A Project Participant may withdraw any of its Specified Personnel upon 90 days' notice to the Company provided it provides replacements for such personnel who are reasonably acceptable to the Company.

The Company may, at its discretion, treat the costs mentioned in clause 9.2(4), or part of them, as an additional Project Contribution by the Contributed Asset owner and must notify the owner of the Contributed Asset of the amount that will be treated as an additional Project Contribution.

Nothing in this Agreement shall be taken to in any way authorise or permit the Company to incur any liabilities or undertake any obligations on behalf of, or in the names of, any of the Project Participants except as specifically authorised in this Agreement.

Each Project Participant must keep separate financial accounts which must record:

The Company shall keep separate financial accounts which shall record:

Each Project Participant must provide to the Company, within 14 days of a written request from the Company:

Each Project Participant is responsible for keeping separate documentation that records each non-cash Project Contribution and it must provide such documentation to the Company if reasonably requested to do so by the Company.

Each Project shall be managed by a Project Leader.

The Parties acknowledge that a Project Participant employing the Project Leader will require information on the status and results of the Project from time to time in order to fulfil its obligations under this Agreement.

The Project Participants must carry out the Project:

Each Party will make its Background IP available to the Project as specified in the applicable Project Details and this clause.

Each Project Participant will grant a licence to the Company, on reasonable terms to be agreed by the Project Participant and the Company, to use the Project Participant's Background IP for the purposes of Commercialising Project IP from the Project (including the right to sub-licence) provided that:

The Company will grant a licence to the Project Participants, on the terms set out in clause 18 and any other reasonable terms to be agreed by the Company, to use the Centre IP for the purposes of the Project.

The Company shall maintain a register recording all Background IP under this Agreement, including any encumbrances or restrictions on its use specified or notified in accordance with clause19.

The Parties agree that they will take all necessary steps to give each other prompt notice of any infringement of Background IP that comes to their attention.

Upon its creation, Project IP will be owned as follows:

If the Project Contributions contributed by one or more Parties during the Project differ from that specified in the Project Details, each Party's Project Share will be recalculated by the Company in accordance with the following formula as at the end of the Project:

The Parties must co-operate and promptly do all acts and things and execute all documents which may be necessary for the purpose of vesting ownership of the legal and beneficial interest in the Project IP as required under this Agreement.

No Project Participant may deal with, Commercialise, dispose of or encumber any interest which it might hold in Project IP, without the written consent of the Company.

The Company may at all times:

A Project Participant wishing to use Project IP for any purpose not authorised under clause 31.1 must obtain a licence from the Company covering such use.

The Company must decide whether any Project IP warrants pursuing patent protection, or other forms of Intellectual Property protection, and if it does, in which countries protection should be sought.

Before the Company Commercialises any Project IP, it must comply with the following procedure:

After completion of the processes described in this clause, the Company may Commercialise the Project IP in accordance with the amended Commercialisation Plan, unless Project Participants holding more than 50% of the Project Shares have elected to withdraw under clause 38.1(3), in which case the Company must continue to Commercialise the Project IP in accordance with the unamended Commercialisation Plan.

The Company must keep written records of:

The Project Participants agree that the Company may use the Commercialisation Income with respect to Project IP to pay Commercialisation Expenses or reimburse the Company for previously incurred Commercialisation Expenses with respect to Project IP.

For the avoidance of doubt, the Project Participants acknowledge that the Company may in any Financial Year use Commercialisation Income received in that Financial Year to reimburse Commercialisation Expenses incurred in previous Financial Years.

By 31 August each year, the Company must remit to each Project Participant its share of Net Commercialisation Income with respect to the Project IP or Project IP for the previous Financial Year corresponding to Project Shares as at 1 July that year, subject to any adjustments pursuant to clauses 37 and 38.

Subject to clauses 42.2, and 42.3, each Party (the indemnifying Party) irrevocably and unconditionally indemnifies and agrees to keep indemnified each of the other Parties and their respective directors, officers, employees, agents and contractors (those indemnified) from and against any and all Loss (including legal fees on a full indemnity basis and net of any GST input tax credits to which those indemnified are entitled) howsoever arising that those indemnified may suffer, incur or sustain as a result of:

The indemnity given by an indemnifying Party pursuant to clause 42.1 shall be reduced proportionately to the extent that the Loss referred to in clause 42.1 was caused or contributed to by:

Nothing in clause 42.1 or any other provision of the Agreement will render a Party liable for any special, indirect or consequential loss or damages (including loss of income or profits) arising under or pursuant to this Agreement.

Each of those indemnified under clause 42.1 must promptly notify every indemnifying Party of any event or circumstance that may reasonably give rise to those indemnified relying upon the indemnity in clause 42.1.

This clause is a continuing obligation, separate and independent of each Party's other obligations and shall survive the expiration or, where relevant, earlier termination of this agreement and will continue to apply (both as a right and as an obligation) to any Party who is expelled or retires from the Project.

Each Party must effect and maintain adequate insurance to cover its own participation in the Project, including all Projects in which it participates.

A Project Participant may act as its own insurer provided that it receives the consent of the Company.

Each Project Participant must provide the Company with a certificate of currency of its relevant insurance policies as requested by the Company from time to time.

Any amendment or variation to a Project, including to Milestones or Deliverables, must be agreed in writing by the Company and all Project Participants.

Subject to the Commonwealth Agreement, a Project Participant may withdraw from the Project by giving six months notice to each other Project Participant.

If a Party withdraws from the Project the remaining Parties must meet for the purpose of agreeing on whether or not to continue the Project or a variation of the Project and the terms to which that continuation would be subject.

A Project Participant (the Defaulting Participant) may be expelled from the Project, provided Due Cause has arisen with respect to the Defaulting Participant and remains unremedied after 21 Business Days following notice to the Defaulting Participant

If a Project Participant withdraws or is expelled from the Project, the Project Participant will from the date of effect of the withdrawal or expulsion:

The Project will terminate if the Participants Agreement is terminated for whatever reason.

The Company may terminate a Project upon 30 days written notice to the Project Participants if:

If the Project is terminated pursuant to clause 49.1(3) (regarding likelihood of achievement of Project Objectives), then the Company must reimburse each Project Participant for its reasonable expenses necessarily incurred as a result of the early termination (if any), up to a total amount for each Project Participant not to exceed the balance of the Project Funds that would have been paid to that Project Participant if there had been no early termination.

Unless the Parties otherwise agree, this Agreement will terminate upon expiration of the Term in accordance with clause 2.

Termination of this Agreement for any reason will be without prejudice to the continuing enforceability of any rights or obligations of the Parties accrued at the time of termination.

Each Project Participant must keep separate financial accounts which must record:

The Company must at all reasonable times allow a Project Participant and its directors, officers, employees, agents and contractors to access, inspect and copy material, records, accounts and other financial material relevant to the Project, including for the purposes of an audit.

Notwithstanding clause 52.3, a Project Participant granting access (Host) to the Company, or its directors, officers, employees, agents or contractors, may impose as a condition, that the Company directors, officers, employees, agents and contractors and execute an agreement, in a form acceptable to the Host, which:

The Company may publish information or material arising from the Project if it decides at its absolute discretion that the benefits of publication, having regards to the Centre Objectives, outweigh any potential loss of commercially valuable Intellectual Property rights or other potential disadvantage for the Company or the Centre.

At least 30 days prior to submission for publication, a Project Participant wishing to publish information or material arising from the Project (Requesting Party) must forward a request in writing to the Company, seeking permission to publish the information or material, and specifying in the request any Project IP or Confidential Information contained or referred to in the proposed publication.

The Company must notify the Requesting Party of its decision as to publication of the relevant information or materials within 30 days from receipt of a request.

If the Company acting reasonably decides that the benefits of the Requesting Party's publication, having regards to the Centre Objectives, outweigh the potential loss of commercially valuable Intellectual Property rights or other potential disadvantage for the Company or the Centre, then the Company will notify the Requesting Party that permission to publish has been granted, and notify the other Parties to that effect.

If the Company acting reasonable decides that the benefits of publication, having regards to the Centre Objectives, do not outweigh the potential loss of commercially valuable Intellectual Property rights or other potential disadvantage for the Company or the Centre, then the Company will notify the Requesting Party to that effect, giving reasons for the decision, and either:

Unless authorised under clause 54 or this clause, each Party must not publish or disclose to any third party any information or material arising from carrying out the Project.

Except as otherwise provided in this clause, each Party must keep confidential and not disclose any Confidential Information of another Party.

The obligations imposed on a Party by this clause will not apply to Confidential Information which:

A combination of information will not be taken to be in the public domain merely because it contains information in the public domain.

Each Party must use its reasonable efforts to ensure that:

The obligations of confidentiality imposed on a Party will survive termination of this Agreement or the Party's expulsion from the Project.

The Company is principally responsible for making public announcements about the Project and a Project Participant must not make any public announcement in relation to the Project or this Agreement without obtaining the Company's approval, except if required by law or a regulatory body (including a relevant stock exchange), in which case the Project Participant must, to the extent practicable, first consult with and take into account the reasonable requirements of the Company.

A Party must not use the name or logo of any other Party without the prior written consent of that Party.

For the purposes of this clause 58, Conflict means any matter, circumstance, interest, or activity affecting a Party (including the officers, employees, agents and subcontractors of the Party) which may or may appear to impair the ability of the Party (Affected Party) to carry out its part of the Project diligently and independently in accordance with this Agreement.

The Company will maintain a register of Conflicts disclosed under this Agreement.

If a dispute arises out of this Agreement (Dispute), a Party must comply with this clause 59 before starting arbitration or court proceedings (except proceedings for interlocutory relief).

A Party claiming a Dispute has arisen must give the other Parties to the Dispute notice setting out details of the Dispute.

During the 14 days after a notice is given under clause 59.2 (or longer period if the Parties to the Dispute agree in writing), each Party to the Dispute must use its reasonable efforts to resolve the Dispute and if necessary involve the Chief Executive Officers or other senior officers of the Parties directly in the negotiations.

If the Parties cannot resolve the Dispute within that period, they must either:

If the Dispute relates to a matter of valuation the Dispute will be determined by a valuer agreed by the Parties involved in the Dispute or otherwise appointed by the President or acting President of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in Australia.

If the Parties to the Dispute cannot agree on a mediator within seven days after a request under clause 59.3, the chairman of LEADR or the chairman's nominee will appoint a mediator.

Each Party to a Dispute must pay its own costs of complying with this clause 59.

If a payment to a Party under this Agreement is a reimbursement or indemnification, calculated by reference to a loss, cost or expense incurred by that Party, then the payment will be reduced by the amount of any input tax credit to which that Party is entitled for that loss, cost or expense.

If a Party to this Agreement is a government agency it will not be within the reasonable control of that Party merely because that Party is part of the government that has the legal capacity to perform an act or omission that may otherwise constitute a Force Majeure Event.

If, after 30 days, the Force Majeure Event has not ceased, the Parties will meet in good faith to discuss the situation and endeavour to achieve a mutually satisfactory resolution.

A notice, demand, consent, approval or communication under this Agreement (Notice) must be:

Unless agreed otherwise by the Parties, on the termination of this Agreement the Parties and any former Parties shall continue to be bound by the obligations under clauses 26 (Project IP) 42 (indemnities), 43 (insurance) and 55 (confidentiality) (to the extent that these obligations are applicable to them) and any other obligations which by their nature are intended to survive this agreement.

Except where this Agreement expressly states otherwise, a Party may, in its discretion, give conditionally or unconditionally or withhold any approval or consent under this Agreement.

No Party may assign or attempt to assign or otherwise transfer or encumber any right or obligation arising out of this Agreement except:

A Party shall not sub-contract the performance of a substantial part of the Project of the Centre without the prior approval of the Company.

Each Party must pay its own costs of negotiating, preparing and executing this Agreement.

This Agreement may be executed in counterparts.

Each Party must do, at its own expense, everything reasonably necessary (including executing documents) to give full effect to this Agreement and any transaction contemplated by it.

A term or part of a term of this Agreement that is illegal or unenforceable may be severed from this Agreement and the remaining terms or parts of the terms of this Agreement continue in force.

No provision of this Agreement will be interpreted as attempting to exclude or limit, or having the effect of excluding or limiting, the operation of subsection 47B(3) or section 47C, 47D, 47E or 47F, of the Copyright Act 1968 (Cth).

The Licensor shall deliver the Licensed Software and Source Code to the Licensee, and install the Licensed Software as it becomes available for release.

The Licensee shall give the Licensor such reasonable assistance, including the provision of personnel and facilities, as the Licensor reasonably considers necessary to ensure satisfactory installation of the Licensed Software.

If, in the opinion of the Licensor, the costs associated with the installation of the Licensed Software are greater than the Licensor could have reasonably contemplated on execution of this Agreement and are greater than the costs which would normally be associated with a similar installation project, the Licensor may make an Additional Charge.

The Licensor shall grant to the Licensee a non-exclusive, non-transferable licence for the Initial Term to use so much of the Licensed Software at the Site as is released by the Licensor during the term of this Agreement but such use shall be solely for the purpose of conducting the Licensee's business.

At the sole discretion of the Licensor, the Licence may be renewed for subsequent terms of similar duration to the Initial Term.

A licence renewal fee shall be payable in accordance with Schedule 2 in the event the licence is extended pursuant to this clause.

The Licensor shall provide the Licensee with such number of copies of the Documentation as are specified in Schedule 1.

The Licensee shall not copy or reproduce the Documentation except to the extent otherwise authorised by this Agreement.

The Licensee may only use the Licensed Software in accordance with the normal operating procedures as notified by the Licensor.

The Licensed Software may only be used pursuant to this Agreement:

Unless specified to the contrary in Schedule 1, the Licensed Software may not be used on equipment other than Designated Equipment save that of the sole risk of the Licensee it may be used on alternative equipment if.

The Licensee shall not copy, alter, modify or reproduce the Licensed Software except to the extent otherwise authorised by this Agreement.

In addition to any other remedies available to the Licensor under this Agreement or otherwise, any unauthorised use, alteration, modification, reproduction, publication, disclosure or transfer of the Licensed Software will entitle the Licensor to any available equitable remedy against the Licensee.

Except to the extent specified to the contrary in this Agreement, the Licensor shall not be obliged to support the Licensed Software, whether by providing advice, training, error-correction, modifications, updates, new releases or enhancements or otherwise.

Subject to subclause 2, the Licensee shall not copy or reproduce the Licensed Software or Documentation by any means or in any form without the Licensor's prior written consent.

The Licensee may make one copy of the Licensed Software for the purpose of backup and security.

The Licensee shall ensure any copy of the Licensed Software made pursuant to this Agreement bears notice of the Licensor's ownership of copyright and a notice stipulating that the Licensed Software contains information confidential to the Licensor.

If requested by the Licensor, the Licensee shall issue a notice in a form approved by the Licensor to all employees and other authorised users of the Licensed Software under its direction or control, advising such persons of the Licensee's obligations under this clause and also advising of the possible civil and criminal consequences of a breach of this clause.

The Licensee may modify or alter the Licensed Software or merge all or any part of the Licensed Software with any other software without the Licensor's written permission.

The Licensee hereby assigns to the Licensor all future copyright in the modifications or alterations made by the Licensee to the Licensed Software throughout all countries of the world in which the rights hereby assigned subsist to the intent that the said rights therein shall forthwith upon the creation of such modifications or alterations vest in the Licensor;

This Agreement shall apply to the Licensed Software as modified or altered.

The Licensee shall execute such documents and perform such other acts as are necessary in order to give effect to subclause 3.

The Licensee shall comply with the terms of any licence for the use of Open Source Software.

The Licensee shall provide to the Licensor details of and the source code for any modifications or enhancements made by the Licensee to the open Source Software or any other software forming part of the System.

All modifications and alterations made by the Licensee must include a file documenting the modification or alteration so made.

The Licensee shall be solely responsible for the use, supervision, management and control of the Licensed Software and Documentation.

The Licensee shall ensure that the Licensed Software is protected at all times from misuse, damage, destruction or any form of unauthorised use.

The Licensee shall keep accurate records of use, copying, modification and disclosure of the Licensed Software.

The Licensor shall determine at its discretion:

The Licensee shall only use the System as determined by the Licensor and only for its business purposes.

The Licensor will provide to the Licensee source code for:

The Licensee shall comply with a direction from the Licensor to redeliver the Licensed Software to the Suppler in substitution for an update or new release which provides functions equal to or better than the Licensed Software.

Without limiting the Licensee's obligations under this clause, and notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, the Licensor shall be under no liability to the Licensee in the event of loss or damage suffered by the Licensor as a result of its failure to comply with this clause, and the Licensee shall indemnify the Licensor in respect of any loss or damage suffered by the Licensor as a result of the Licensee's failure to comply with this clause.

The Licensee shall ensure that the appropriate officers or employees of the Licensee attend meetings of the User Group.

The Licensee shall report (in writing) to the User Group giving details of:

The Licensee shall comply with the Source Code Control System used by the Licensor.

The Licensee shall ensure that appropriate officers and employees of the Licensee are made available to participate in training in the use of the System.

The Licensee shall pay the Licence Fee at the rate and in the manner specified in Schedule 2.

If the Licensee disputes the whole or any portion of the amount claimed in an invoice submitted by the Licensor, the Licensee shall pay the portion of the amount stated in the invoice which is not in dispute and shall notify the Licensor in writing (within seven (7) days of receipt of the invoice) of the reasons for disputing the remainder of the invoice.

The Licensee shall pay the Licensor interest on any amount due and not paid by the Customer within the timeframe required by this Agreement and the rate of interest specified in Schedule 2.

For the duration of the Warranty Period, the Licensor warrants that the Licensed Software will operate in conformity with the Documentation in all material respects.

If at any time during the Warranty Period the Licensee believes there is a defect in the Licensed Software such that the Licensed Software does not comply with or cannot be used in accordance with the Specifications, the Licensee shall notify the Licensor of such perceived defect.

The Licensor shall investigate the perceived defect notified pursuant to subclause 2 and shall, upon the verification of the existence of the defect, rectify such defect without additional charge to the Licensee.

If due investigation by the Licensor of a defect reported pursuant to subclause 2 reveals that no such defect in fact exists, the Licensor may make an Additional Charge in respect of such investigation.

The Licensor shall not be liable under this clause to the extent that a defect is caused by the Licensee or a third party, including the failure of the Licensee or a third party to maintain the operating environment designated in the Documentation or to otherwise use the Licensed Software in accordance with specifications issued by the Licensor from time to time, whether in the Documentation or otherwise.

A Party shall not, without the prior written approval of the other Party, disclose the other Party's Confidential Information.

A Party shall not be in breach of subclause 1 in circumstances where it:

Each Party shall take all reasonable steps to ensure that its employees and agents, and any sub-contractors engaged for the purposes of this Agreement, do not make public or disclose the other Party's Confidential Information.

Notwithstanding any other provision of this clause, the Licensor may disclose the terms of this Agreement (other than Confidential Information of a technical nature) to its related companies, solicitors, auditors, insurers and accountants.

This clause shall survive the termination of this Agreement.

During the Restraint Period, neither Party shall solicit for employment, either directly or indirectly, any person who is employed or contracted by the other Party.

A Party shall promptly advise the other Party if a person who is employed or contracted by the other Party seeks to be employed or contracted by the firstmentioned Party prior to the expiration of the Restraint Period.

Subject to subclauses 2, 3 and 4, the Licensor shall indemnify the Licensee against liability under any final judgment in proceedings brought by a third party against the Licensee which determine that the Licensee's use of the Licensed Software constitutes an infringement in Australia of any Intellectual Property Rights in the Licensed Software.

The Licensor shall not be required to indemnify the Licensee as provided in subclause 1 unless the Licensee:

The Licensor shall not indemnify the Licensee to the extent that an infringement, suspected infringement or alleged infringement arises from:

In the event that proceedings are brought or threatened by a third party against the Licensee alleging that the Licensee's use of the Licensed Software constitutes an infringement of Intellectual Property Rights, the Licensor may at its option and at its own expense conduct the defence of such proceedings.

The Licensee shall indemnify the Licensor against any loss, costs, expenses, demands or liability, whether direct or indirect, arising out of a claim by a third party alleging such infringement if:

Subject to subclause 2, any condition or warranty which would otherwise be implied in this Agreement is hereby excluded.

Where legislation implies in this Agreement any condition or warranty, and that legislation avoids or prohibits provisions in a contract excluding or modifying the application of or exercise of or liability under such condition or warranty, the condition or warranty shall be deemed to be included in this Agreement.

Except in relation to liability for personal injury (including sickness and death), the Licensor shall be under no liability to the Licensee in respect of any loss or damage (including consequential loss or damage) which may be suffered or incurred or which may arise directly or indirectly in respect of goods or services supplied pursuant to this Agreement or in respect of a failure or omission on the part of the Licensor to comply with its obligations under this Agreement.

The Licensee shall at all times indemnify and hold harmless the Licensor and its officers, employees and agents ("those indemnified") from and against any loss (including reasonable legal costs and expenses) or liability reasonably incurred or suffered by any of those indemnified arising from any proceedings against those indemnified where such loss or liability was caused by:

Without limiting the generality of any other clause in this Agreement, the Licensor may terminate this Agreement immediately by notice in writing if:

If notice is given to the Licensee pursuant to subclause 1, the Licensor may, in addition to terminating the Agreement:

In the event of the termination of this Agreement by the Licensor, the Licensee shall resign as a Member.

Neither Party shall be liable for any delay or failure to perform its obligations pursuant to this Agreement if such delay is due to Force Majeure.

If a delay or failure of a Party to perform its obligations is caused or anticipated due to Force Majeure, the performance of that Party's obligations will be suspended.

If a delay or failure by a Party to perform its obligations due to Force Majeure exceeds sixty (60) days, either Party may immediately terminate the Agreement on providing notice in writing to the other Party.

If this Agreement is terminated pursuant to subclause 3, the Licensor shall refund moneys previously paid by the Licensee pursuant to this Agreement for goods or services not provided by the Licensor to the Licensee.

The Licensor may sub-contract for the performance of this Agreement or any part of this Agreement to the extent so specified in Schedule 1 or upon obtaining (subject to subclause 3) the Licensee's prior written consent.

The Licensee shall not unreasonably withhold consent for the engagement of a sub-contractor in accordance with subclause 1.

The Licensor may, without the consent of the Licensee, engage individuals on a sub-contract or consultancy basis, whether or not operating under a corporate structure, to assist in the provision of services pursuant to this Agreement.

The documents comprising this Agreement shall be read in the following order of precedence:

Where any conflict occurs between the provisions contained in two or more of the documents forming this Agreement, the document lower in the order of precedence shall where possible be read down to resolve such conflict.

The benefit of this Agreement shall not be assigned by the Licensee without the Licensor's written consent.

The Licensor may consent to the assignment or novation of this Agreement by the Licensee subject to such conditions as it chooses to impose.

No right under this Agreement shall be deemed to be waived except by notice in writing signed by each Party.

A waiver made by the Licensor pursuant by subclause 1 will not prejudice its rights in respect of any subsequent breach of the Agreement by the Licensee.

Subject to subclause 1, any failure by the Licensor to enforce any clause of this Agreement, or any forbearance, delay or indulgence granted by the Licensor to the Licensee, will not be construed as a waiver of the Licensor's rights under this Agreement.

The provisions of this Agreement, shall not be varied, except by agreement in writing signed by the Parties.

If either Party wishes to vary the Agreement, the proposing Party shall submit a copy of the proposed variations to the other Party ("the receiving Party"), specifying a reasonable period in which the receiving Party is to provide written notice of acceptance or rejections of the proposal.

If the receiving Party accepts the variations, the Agreement shall be deemed to be so amended from the date of acceptance.

If the receiving Party rejects the proposed variations, each Party shall perform the Agreement in accordance with the unvaried terms.

Any dispute arising in connection with this Agreement which cannot be settled by negotiation between the Parties or their representatives shall be submitted to arbitration in accordance with the Rules for the Conduct of Commercial Arbitrations for the time being of the Institute of Arbitrators Australia.

Nothing in this clause shall prevent a Party from seeking urgent equitable relief before an appropriate court.

Subject to any provision to the contrary, this Agreement shall enure to the benefit of and be binding upon the Parties and their successors, trustees, permitted assigns or receivers but shall not enure to the benefit of any other persons.

The covenants, conditions and provisions of this Agreement which are capable of having effect after the expiration of the Agreement shall remain in full force and effect following the expiration of the Agreement:

If any provision of this Agreement is held invalid, unenforceable or illegal for any reason, the Agreement shall remain otherwise in full force apart from such provisions which shall be deemed deleted.

This Agreement will be governed by and construed according to the law of the jurisdiction specified in Schedule 1.

Notices under this agreement may be delivered by hand, by mail or by facsimile to the addresses specified in Schedule 1.

Notice will be deemed given:

This Agreement may be executed in counterparts by the respective Parties, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement, provided that this Agreement shall be of no force and effect until the counterparts are exchanged.

The provisions of Clause 2.1 shall not apply to any information which:

Neither party accepts any responsibility for or makes any representations or warranties, express or implied, with respect to the accuracy or completeness of any of the Confidential Information and neither party shall be liable to the other party or any third party for any loss resulting from use of the Confidential Information.

The obligations on both parties pursuant to Clause 2.2 shall continue for the period of the Proposed Project from the date of this agreement, subject to the provisions of Clause 2.2 above, whatever the outcome of discussions and negotiations relating to the Proposed Project, and shall continue for a period of three years from the date of this agreement.

All intellectual property rights arising out of the Proposed Project shall on coming into existence vest with The Product Workshop's client (The proposed Projects owner).

This agreement shall not be construed as granting any licences or other similar rights arising out of the disclosure of the Confidential Information.

This agreement supersedes any previous agreement between the parties in relation to the subject matter and represents the entire agreement between the parties in relation to the subject matter and may not be varied except by a written instrument signed by or for and on behalf of all the parties.

Nothing in this agreement shall be deemed to constitute a partnership or agency between the parties.

Any notice which either party is required to give under this agreement shall be in writing and shall be served by recorded delivery post to the address of the relevant party as notified from time-to-time by such party.

In the course of the above "Company A" shall not be liable for any damages for any inadvertent disclosure where the customary degree of care as previously defined had been exercised provided that upon discovery of such inadvertent disclosure, it shall have endeavoured to prevent any further inadvertent disclosure.

The Parties will contribute funding to the Project in accordance with clause 7.

The Parties will form a Management Committee in accordance with clause 6.

The Parties will appoint a Project Manager to carry out the Project Activities in accordance with clause 3.

The Project Activities may involve Researchers and Collaborators in accordance with that as described in part 2.1.4 of the Application attached to Schedule 5.

The Parties intend to disclose the outcomes of the Project, or to commercialise the Project Technology (in which case they will appoint a Commercialisation Manager).

A Project Manager is hereby appointed by the Parties to manage the Project Activities and the Project Manager shall, during the Project Period, use his best endeavours to carry out the Project Activities:

The Project Manager shall commence carrying out the Project Activities on the Commencement Date.

The Project Manager will be responsible for obtaining any necessary approvals, authorisations and accreditations to enable it to conduct the Project.

The Project Manager will report to the Management Committee as and when required by this Agreement and at other times as reasonably requested by the Management Committee.

The Project Manager may be replaced with another person by the mutual agreement of the Parties (or with another person on terms which bind that person to the terms of this Agreement).

A Party shall not dispose of, deal with, or create any Security Interest in or over any Assets or Project Technology, except strictly in accordance with this Agreement, without the prior written consent of all of the Parties.

The Project Manager shall, without delay, report to the Management Committee any substantial proposed changes to the Project Plan or to the Business Plan or to the Project Objectives defined in part 2.2.1(b) of the Application attached to Schedule 5, and shall not implement such changes without the prior written approval of the Management Committee and without first putting forward for adoption any changes to the Agreement or its Schedules or Annexures reasonably required for the Agreement to reflect those changes.

Where the changes referred to in clause 4.1 are substantial or significant in the reasonable opinion of GGDF, the Applicant may be required by GGDF to submit a new application for funding within 30 days.

The Project Manager shall not, without the prior written approval of the Management Committee, sub-contract or permit to be sub-contracted by a Researcher the performance of any substantial part of the Project other than as contemplated in the Business Plan.

The Project Manager shall be fully responsible for the performance of the Project notwithstanding that a Researcher has sub-contracted the performance of any of the Project Activities or is providing an in-kind Contribution or Background Technology.

As soon as practical after the Commencement Date the Parties will establish the Management Committee which will:

Each Party will bear its own costs in respect of its participation on the Management Committee.

A quorum for meetings of the Management Committee will be a minimum of the one representative nominated by GGDF and the one representative nominated by the Applicant.

All decisions of the Management Committee must be made by consensus to be binding and effective.

Each Party will have the right to dismiss and replace any of its representatives, subject to it providing the other Parties with reasonable written prior notice.

Each Party will have the right to appoint an alternate person to act as its representative at such meetings of the Management Committee as it requires, subject to it providing the other Parties with reasonable prior notice.

A Party may at any time and from time to time commission, at its own cost, an independent technical scientific and financial review of the progress of the Project.

Notwithstanding the foregoing any member or members of the Management Committee may submit a minority report to the Management Committee which must be included in the minutes.

GGDF shall provide the GGDF Contribution in the instalments detailed in part 2.2.2.3(b) of the Application attached to Schedule 5.

Subject to the project reports being delivered by the Project Manager, and being reviewed by the Management Committee and found to be acceptable to GGDF, each of the Parties shall provide its share of the Party Contribution as and when required as detailed in part 2.2.2.3(e) of the Application attached to Schedule 5

The Project Manager shall apply Contributions only for the Project Activities.

Notwithstanding clause 3.1, and in compliance with clause 3, the Project Manager may reallocate the budgetary resources between heads of expenditure, provided that the actual total yearly expenditure on the Project under each head of expenditure does not differ by more than 10% or $50,000 (whichever is the greater amount) from the allocation in the Budget without prior approval by the Management Committee.

Capital items acquired or purchased in accordance with the Budget on acquisition shall vest in and remain the property of the purchasing party.

The Project Manager shall ensure that:

GGDF and each other Party or its auditors may, on reasonable notice:

The Project Manager will submit to the Management Committee reports, and a final report for the Project by the dates set out in part 2.2.2.3(b) of the Application attached to Schedule 5.

The Project Manager will in each report:

Each project report delivered in respect of the quarter ending 30 June will also comprise a summary of expenditure for the Project for the most recent financial year.

Within sixty (60) days of the completion of the Project, the Project Manager will provide the Management Committee with a final report in relation to the Project:

During the Project Period, a Party may give to any other Party (the defaulting Party) notice that one or more of the following circumstances has arisen, and requiring the defaulting Party to remedy the same:

If within thirty (30) days of a notice referred to in clause 11.1 the circumstances referred to in the notice remain and/or have not been remedied by the defaulting Party, then the other Party may, at its option:

A Party may, after an appropriate level of consultation between the Parties, terminate this Agreement upon 30 days' notice if:

shall not incur any new commitments of expenditure unless they will be satisfied entirely from the proportion of the funds that will remain after the Project Manager has complied with paragraph (c);

The Project Manager shall effect and maintain adequate insurance to cover his participation and the Applicant's participation in the Project and, if requested, provide GGDF with relevant certificates of currency regarding its insurance arrangements.

The Project Manager shall ensure that any Collaborator effects and maintains adequate insurance to cover its participation in the Project.

The Project Manager shall and, if requested, provide GGDF with relevant certificates of currency regarding its insurance arrangements and those of any Collaborator.

The insurances referred to above shall cover all usual insurable risks of the Project and the Project Activities.

The Applicant and the Project Manager, jointly and severally, indemnify and shall keep indemnified GGDF, its officers, employees and agents (including members of the Management Committee) from and against all actions, claims, demands, costs and expenses (including the costs of defending or settling any action, claim or demand) made, sustained, brought or prosecuted for any injury to any person (including death) or loss of or damage to property which may arise from or be a consequence of any unlawful or negligent act or omission of the Applicant and/or the Project Manager, and/or any of their officers, employees or agents in carrying out the Project Activities.

The Applicant and the Project Manager shall not be liable under the indemnity in clause 13.1 for any loss of profits, loss of use, loss of revenue or loss of anticipated savings or any similar loss (whether direct or indirect) or any pure economic loss whatsoever.

Personnel of any Party (hereinafter in this clause 14 referred to as "Visitors") will have access at all reasonable times to such part of any other Party's premises at which the Project Activities are being conducted for the purpose of inspecting the progress of the Project subject to the following conditions:

Each Party will ensure, whilst Visitors are visiting or accessing premises owned or controlled by it, that such premises comply with any occupational health and safety standards required by legislation.

The Project Manager shall ensure that in the conduct of the Project Activities all relevant ethics codes and guidelines adopted by the National Health and Medical Research Council (including without limitation the National Statement on Ethical Conduct in Research involving humans and the Australian Code of Practice for the care and use of animals for scientific purposes, or such replacements thereof as are current from time to time), and by the Office of the Gene Technology Regulator, are observed at all times.

The Project Manager shall cause to be constituted an ethics committee or committees in accordance with the codes and guidelines referred to in clause 15.1, where reasonably necessary or appropriate to oversee all ethical clearances which may be required under those codes and guidelines.

When required by law due to the nature of any procedures to be performed in the conduct of the Project, the Project Manager shall ensure that persons performing those procedures are appropriately trained and hold a relevant current licence.

Whenever required by the Management Committee, the Project Manager shall furnish to the Management Committee written evidence of compliance with the requirements of this clause 15.

Each Party acknowledges and agrees that, other than as provided for herein, it will not have any claim, ownership or interest in another Party's Background Technology.

Each Party acknowledges and agrees that, other than as provided for herein, it will not have any claim, ownership or interest in another Party's Improvements in Background Technology.

Where knowledge (including the Technology therein) of a Party's Background Technology or any Improvements in Background Technology is reasonably required for Commercialisation, the owning Party shall make disclosure to the extent reasonable necessary for that purpose, or if the circumstances require, make delivery of materials or substances, or provide machinery or equipment, where such constitute its Background Technology.

All rights to Intellectual Property shall vest in the Parties as tenants in common in the shares and in the manner set out in clause 18 and Schedule 4.

The Parties agree that any accretion to a Party's Know How arising during the course of carrying out its obligations under this Agreement will be available for use as part of the Project Technology but also continue to constitute a part of that Party's Know How.

The Parties will own as tenants in common :

The costs of applying for, prosecuting and maintaining patent protection ("IP Protection") shall be borne by the Applicant.

All Parties must authorise and approve:

The Parties shall appoint one or more Commercialisation Managers of the Project Technology on the basis of that person's proven capability to Commercialise Intellectual Property of the nature of the Project Technology, with an emphasis on Commercialisation within the Victorian Dairy Industry or Victorian Dairy Community.

The Commercialisation Manager will be responsible for Commercialisation of all Project Technology and collecting, accounting for and distributing (in accordance with the terms of this Agreement) all revenues derived from that Commercialisation.

The Commercialisation Manager, or another person nominated for that purpose, will be responsible for managing all IP registrations and custodianship of IP.

Wherever any person other than the Parties, and not being an owner of any Project Technology, is entitled to a share of revenues derived from Commercialisation of the Project Technology, the Commercialisation Manager shall ensure that a certificate of entitlement is issued to that person, and that that person's rateable share of revenue is paid to that person together with proper accounting reports.

The Management Committee shall monitor the plan set out in Schedule 4 for the management of the Project Technology (including all Intellectual Property Rights).

The Project Technology shall be Commercialised in accordance with the plan set out in Schedule 3.

The Commercialisation of some or all of the Project Technology shall be the subject of a separate agreement between the owners of the relevant Project Technology and any Commercialisation partners.

Each of the Parties and where applicable any Collaborators shall together at the end of the Project Period create a Commercialisation Committee.

The Commercialisation Committee shall monitor and review the Commercialisation of the Project Technology and give directions concerning the Commercialisation or further research and development or other uses of the Project Technology in order to ensure optimisation of the Commercialisation process or further research and development.

Each Party will treat the terms of this Agreement, information relating to the Project and the Project Technology, and all Confidential Information owned by any other Party as confidential and will not, without the prior written consent of that other Party, disclose or permit the same to be disclosed to any third person.

It will be the responsibility of each Party to ensure that its employees, officers and agents comply with the obligations of confidentiality imposed upon it by this clause as if personally bound by such obligations.

A Party may disclose anything in respect of this Agreement as required by applicable law, Government Agency or ministerial directive.

A Party may disclose anything in respect of this Agreement to the officers and professional advisers of that Party but it must use its best endeavours to ensure all matters disclosed are kept confidential by those parties.

Each Party's obligations under this clause 22 will survive termination of this Agreement and shall continue until the Confidential Information disclosed to it lawfully becomes part of the public domain.

A Party will not use the name or logo of the other Party without having obtained the other Party's prior written consent and the use of the name or logo will be subject to any conditions attaching to such consent.

A Party will not knowingly make or permit to be made any inaccurate or misleading statement concerning any other Party, the Project or Project Technology.

Each Party shall ensure that where any person at any time publishes a book, article or newsletter or disseminates in any other form information relating to the Project Activities, approval for such publication is first obtained from the Management Committee and an appropriate acknowledgment is given of the funding of the Project by GGDF and the other Parties.

A Party ("Notifying Party") may at any time submit to the other Party a paper or papers written by one or more of its students, staff or employees relating to or containing information about the Project with a request in writing signed on behalf of the Notifying Party that the other Party approve the publication of the paper or papers.

month stating whether that Party approves or does not approve the publication of the paper or papers, and must not withhold such approval unless it reasonably believes that such publication would harm, prejudice or in any other way injure the interest which the other Party has in the validity of intellectual property rights under this Agreement, PROVIDED ALWAYS that publication may not be delayed for more than twelve (12) months after submission of a paper.

GGDF acknowledges that under the applicable legislation of a university, if the university is a Party or a Collaborator, it may be obliged to deposit in the library a copy of a student's completed thesis or work submitted for a higher degree.

Notwithstanding the provisions of clause 24.5, GGDF may request that any student's thesis so deposited be withheld from access to library users for a period of not more than twelve (12) months after it is lodged with the library.

Any notice, demand or other communication required to be given or made in writing under this Agreement will be deemed duly given or made if delivered or sent by prepaid airmail post, email message or facsimile transmission to the Party, if a natural person, or if not a natural person, to the company secretary of a Party or a Collaborator at their address above.

Any Party or Collaborator may change its nominated contact person, address or facsimile transmission number for the purposes of this Agreement by giving notice of such change to the other Parties within fourteen (14) days of the change.

Any notice or other communication will be deemed to have been received by the Party to which it was sent:

Where a clause of this Agreement is void, illegal or unenforceable, it may be severed without affecting the enforceability of the other provisions of this Agreement.

A Party may only waive a breach of this Agreement in writing signed by that Party or its authorized representative.

This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts.

A Party may execute and be bound by this Agreement by signing any counterpart and delivering it to the other Party.

For the purposes of the General Agreement, the following definitions shall apply:

The General Agreement shall operate from the date of registration in accordance with Section 41 of the Industrial Relations Act 1979 and will expire on 30 June 2007.

The parties to the General Agreement undertake that for the term of the General Agreement there will be no increases sought or granted other than those provided under the terms of the General Agreement.

The parties to the General Agreement undertake that for the term of the General Agreement there will be no further claims on matters contained in the General Agreement.

The General Agreement rates in Schedule C will replace the District Allowance rates in the awards specified in Schedule B effective from the 1st pay period commencing on or after 1 July 2005.

The parties to the General Agreement agree that the rates specified in Schedule C will be adjusted administratively from the 1 July 2006 in accordance with the official Consumer Price Index for Perth as published for the preceding 12 months at the end of the March quarter 2006 by the Australian Bureau of Statistics.

The parties agree that the working party will be established and meet within 3 months of the registration of this agreement to progress the substantive review referred to in Cl 9.1 and the review will be completed within 18 months of the date of the first meeting of the working party.

Any questions, difficulties or disputes arising in the course of the employment of employees covered by the General Agreement shall be dealt with in accordance with this clause.

The employee/s and the manager with whom the dispute has arisen shall discuss the matter and attempt to find a satisfactory solution, within three (3) working days.

If the dispute cannot be resolved at this level, the matter shall be referred to and be discussed with the relevant manager's superior and an attempt made to find a satisfactory solution, within a further three (3) working days.

If the dispute is still not resolved, it may be referred by the employee/s or union representative to the employer or his/her nominee.

Where the dispute cannot be resolved within five (5) working days of the union representatives' referral of the dispute to the employer or his/her nominee, either party may refer the matter to the WAIRC.

The period for resolving a dispute may be extended by agreement between the parties.

At all stages of the procedure the employee may be accompanied by a union representative.

shall grant non-exclusive selling rights to A Trojan Bloodstock until the horse is sold and A Trojan Bloodstock as agreed in clause 3 are given the commission of 10% of the total price of the horse for sale or a minimum of $500 if the horse is worth less than $5000.

breaks the Exclusive Selling Agreement contract A Trojan Bloodstock will be entitled to its fee on completion of the sale of the horse.

have agreed to enter into this Agreement, which sets out how the Project will be conducted, Student involvement, the ownership of Intellectual Property and related issues.

Contribution" means Contributions that the Partner Organisation(s) must make to the Project and which are identified in the Proposal (or in the event that a variation has been agreed, as set out in Schedule B);

Each Party must carry out their role on the Project as outlined in the Proposal or, if varied in accordance with the Funding Agreement, as set out in Schedule B.

Each Party must conduct the Project in accordance with generally accepted professional, scientific, ethical, business and financial principles and standards and exercise all due care and skill.

The Parties acknowledge that research work is of its nature uncertain and that particular outcomes and results from the Project cannot be guaranteed.

The Parties acknowledge that the conduct of the Project may be subject to the Administering Organisation and the Collaborating Organisation(s) obtaining ethics approval and other forms of statutory approval.

must use their reasonable endeavours to gain such approval prior to the commencement of the Project and during the Project (as relevant), including by reviewing and revising (where appropriate) the Project's scope.

The Parties acknowledge having read and understood the Funding Agreement, a pro forma copy of which can be accessed from the ARC website at:

All Parties agree to comply with the Funding Agreement to the extent that it applies to them and assist the Administering Organisation to comply with the terms of the Funding Agreement and will not do anything which will cause the Administering Organisation to be in breach of the Funding Agreement.

Each Party must provide its Contributions to the Project at the time, location and in the manner as set out in Schedule B.

Except as stated otherwise in the Proposal, the cash component of each Partner Organisation(s) Contribution must be paid up-front annually for each year during the term of the Project and within thirty (30) days of receipt of a valid tax invoice from the Administering Organisation, in accordance with the following:

Each Collaborating Organisation will be paid the annual amount set out in Schedule B within thirty (30) days of receipt by the Administering Organisation of a valid tax invoice subject always to the Administering Organisation receiving Funding in relation to the Project from the ARC and, if relevant, cash Contributions from each Partner Organisation.

The Parties acknowledge and agree that should the Partner Organisation(s) not make the cash component of the Partner Organisation(s) Contribution to the Administering Organisation within thirty (30) days of receipt of invoice, as provided for in clause 5.2 , the full amount of the invoice shall be a debt due to the Administering Organisation and the Administering Organisation may recover such amount without further proof of debt.

As soon as practicable after the Commencement Date, the Chief Investigators, Partner Investigators and the Partner Organisation(s) may establish a Project Management Committee for the Project.

The Project Management Committee will have general oversight of the conduct of the Project including to discuss and determine matters relating to the conduct, content and scope of the Project.

The following matters may be considered at the first meeting of the Project Management Committee:

The Project Management Committee may make decisions and or give consents required under this Agreement in order to carry out the Project.

The management structure and decision making protocols agreed by the Parties under this clause 6 must be observed by the Parties for the duration of the Project (if applicable).

For the avoidance of doubt, the Project Management Committee will not have the power to vary this Agreement and all such variations must comply with clause 16.11 (Variation).

The Parties agree that the Background Intellectual Property which a Party makes available for the conduct of the Project will remain the property of that Party.

No representations or warranties are made or given in relation to Background Intellectual Property, however each Party making available Background Intellectual Property acknowledges that to the best of its knowledge at the time of entering into this Agreement, such Background Intellectual Property when used in accordance with this Agreement will not infringe any third party Intellectual Property rights.

Each Party must maintain reasonable, up to date and accurate records regarding the conduct and conclusions of its part of the Project and its respective Contributions

Project Intellectual Property will be owned by the Administering Organisation.

All Information, know-how, discovery, innovation or invention and Intellectual Property Rights resulting from or arising in the course of the Project which were not reasonably anticipated, in the majority opinion of the Project Management Committee ("Serendipitous Discovery") shall be owned by the Party making or creating the Serendipitous Discovery.

Any Student involved in the Project as part of a postgraduate degree will own copyright in their thesis.

Confidential Information disclosed during the Project must only be used for the express purpose for which it was disclosed.

Each Party must treat all Confidential Information owned by another Party as confidential and must not, without the prior written consent of the other Party, disclose or permit the same to be disclosed to any third person.

Each Party must ensure that its employees, officers and agents comply with the obligations of confidentiality imposed upon it by this clause.

Each Party acknowledges that it will comply with the Privacy Act 1988 (Cth) and the National Privacy Principles in the use, collection, storage or disclosure of any personal and/or health information collected or used during the Project.

The Project Management Committee may develop Project Publication Protocols for the written approval of all Parties in writing and must distribute the final agreed version of the Project Publication Protocols to all Parties.

to 11.7 will apply.

The Parties must acknowledge the contribution and support of the ARC in accordance with clause 28.2 of the Funding Agreement.

Any Party ("Publishing Party") proposing to publish or publicly present material incorporating Project Intellectual Property that has not already been published, shall submit the proposed publication or abstract of the presentation to Project Management Committee for approval at least thirty (30) days prior to the date of proposed submission for publication or presentation.

Where the proposed publication or presentation contains Confidential Information, the Party to which the Confidential Information belongs may require the proposed publication or presentation be amended so as not to contain that information.

If any Party fails to respond to the Publishing Party within the said twenty-one (21) day period, that Party's approval will be taken to have been given to the relevant publication or presentation.

To the extent that any warranties, terms, conditions, representations or undertakings cannot be excluded at law, liability should be limited to:

The Parties may immediately terminate this Agreement by mutual consent in writing.

The Administering Organisation may terminate this Agreement if the ARC ceases to provide all or any part of the Grant to the Administering Organisation, or if the Funding Agreement is terminated for any reason.

A Party to this Agreement may withdraw from this Project upon giving three (3) months notice in writing to the Administering Organisation where for reasons beyond its control, including, but not limited to, a failure to obtain any required ethics or statutory approval, it is unable to perform its obligations under this Agreement.

The Administering Organisation may terminate the involvement of a Party under this Agreement immediately upon the giving of written notice to that Party if:

Where the involvement of a Party is terminated under clause 14.4 or a Party withdraws from the Project under clause 14.3, the Administering Organisation will consult with the remaining Parties to determine whether or not the Project can proceed without that Party in whole or on a reduced scale.

If this Agreement is terminated under this clause, the Administering Organisation and the Collaborating Institutions may independently continue the Project and access the Partner Organisations' Background Intellectual Property and Confidential Information to the extent necessary for any Student involved in the Project to complete the Student's course work and the Student's thesis.

A Party must not commence legal proceedings relating to this Agreement unless the Party wishing to commence proceedings has complied with this clause 15.

The Parties must co-operate with each other and use their best endeavours to resolve by mutual agreement any disputes between them and all other difficulties which may arise from time to time relating to this Agreement.

Any dispute not resolved under clause 15.2 must be dealt with as follows:

neither party may be accompanied by their legal representative; and

15.7 of the Contract, the Adjudicator's decision will be final and binding.

nor Clause 3.6 shall be construed as prohibiting the ESCO from making and keeping a copy of the Contract Material for its records.

(a) and requested by the ESCO for the purposes of providing the Services is true and accurate and that it is not aware of anything in that relevant material which will hinder the ESCO in providing the Services in accordance with this Agreement.

5.2 and 5.3 below, the Customer must pay to the ESCO the DFS Fee specified in Item 6 of the Schedule within thirty (30) days of the delivery to it of the DFS by the ESCO PROVIDED THAT the Customer is satisfied that the ESCO has delivered the Services in accordance with the terms and conditions of this Agreement and that the DFS meets or exceeds the objectives set out in this Agreement, in the Proposal, or the Request for Proposals, whether or not the parties proceed to execute an EPC.

shall not be required until the Customer determines that the Services have been satisfactorily provided.

2.2 or substantially broadens or narrows the scope of the Services required pursuant to Clause 3.1, shall entitle the ESCO or the Customer to renegotiate the DFS Fee payable pursuant to Clause 5.1 and the ESCO shall not be required to perform the variation until such time as the DFS Fee has been renegotiated.

11.4 will not release the ESCO from liability in respect of any breach or non-performance of any obligation by the ESCO pursuant to this Agreement.

days of a referral for expert determination pursuant to Clause 15.2, then either party may ask the Australian Commercial Disputes Centre to appoint an expert.

15.3 and the determination of the expert shall be final and binding on the parties.

20.2 and in addition to any other fees owing to the ESCO under this Agreement, the Customer must reimburse the ESCO for any federal, state, local or excise taxes that may be imposed on the purchase by the Customer of the Services to be provided under this Agreement when the provider of such services is required by law to collect such taxes.

The Service Provider warrants that the Work shall be carried out in a conscientious, expeditious and workmanlike manner.

The Service Provider warrants it is aware of NSW DET's policies on Equal Employment Opportunity and Anti-Discrimination and will not act contrary to those policies while performing this Agreement.

The Service Provider warrants to NSW DET that in undertaking the Work there shall be no infringement of any copyright vested in any other party.

Ownership of copyright of all materials produced pursuant to or arising from the performance of this Agreement shall vest solely in the Crown in the right of the State of New South Wales.

The Service Provider will not at any time either during the continuance or after the termination of the Work for any reason divulge any of the affairs (which but for a breach of this Agreement, are not within public knowledge) or secrets of NSW DET to any company, person, or persons without the previous written consent of NSW DET, nor use or attempt to use any information acquired by the Service Provider in the course of the Work in any manner which might injure or cause loss to NSW DET.

'Moral Rights' means rights of integrity of authorship, rights of attribution of authorship, rights not to have authorship falsely attributed, and rights of a similar nature confirmed by statute, that exist, or may come to exist anywhere in the world.

In performing the Work the Service Provider must not infringe or allow NSW DET to infringe the copyright or other intellectual property rights or Moral Rights of any person.

warrants that all the rights assigned to or vested in NSW DET under this Agreement do not and will not infringe the copyright Moral Rights or other intellectual property rights of any third party.

The total amount for the performance of the Work is the sum specified in Item 4 of the Schedule and shall be paid in the manner specified in Item 5 of the Schedule.

No additional sum shall be paid to the Service Provider in respect of any cost incurred in performing the Work or in respect of the premises and materials necessary for the performance of this Agreement, both of which are to be provided by the Service Provider.

Any payment for work done shall be made only after the Designated Officer is:

If the imposition of a GST or any subsequent change in the GST law is accompanied by or undertaken in connection with the abolition of or reduction in existing taxes, duties or statutory charges (in this clause "taxes"), the consideration payable by the recipient of the supply made under this Agreement will be reduced directly or indirectly as a consequence of the abolition of or reduction in taxes.

Each party warrants that at the time any supply is made under this Agreement on which GST is imposed, the party is or will be registered under GST law.

Any invoice rendered by a party to this Agreement in connection with supply under this Agreement which seeks to recover an amount of GST payable by that party must conform to the requirements for a tax invoice (as that term is defined in GST law).

Should the dispute not be settled during the negotiation period of twenty eight (28) days, then one party shall, by notice to the other party, require the other party to participate in conciliation to be handled and administered by the Australian Commercial Disputes Centre (ACDC) Ltd.

The conciliation will be conducted in Sydney.

The cost of the conciliation will be borne equally by both parties.

must undertake the activity (Activity) as described in the Recipient's application for funding dated [insert date of application - this date should be the date the application was signed by the Recipient] (Application);

Subject to the terms of this agreement, DFAT will provide the Recipient with $[insert] (inclusive of GST [change as applicable]) (Funding) on receipt of a valid tax invoice from the Recipient.

The Recipient must arrange separate funding for all costs associated with the Activity other than those which DFAT has specifically agreed to fund.

The Recipient shall notify DFAT of any alternative or additional source of financial support in respect of the Activity, whether the additional funding has become available before or after the parties signed this agreement.

The Funding is personal to the Recipient and must not be used for any other purpose except for the Activity or for anyone else's benefit without DFAT's prior written approval.

Where DFAT has agreed to provide the Funding for a component of a larger project, the Funding shall only be used for the Activity and shall not be transferred to other aspects of the larger project, other than with the prior written agreement of DFAT.

The Recipient must acknowledge the support of the Australia-Korea Foundation (AKF) in all publicity material prepared in relation to the Activity, including in all print and electronic acknowledgements and public statements media.

The acknowledgement must feature prominently in the material, including wherever possible by use of the Australia-Korea Foundation logo.

The logo of the Australia-Korea Foundation can be downloaded from the Australia-Korea Foundation's website at http://www.dfat.gov.au/akf/

Where the Recipient has policies on treatment of sponsors and funding providers that might impinge on their ability to comply fully with the provisions in this clause 6, that policy must be made known to DFAT before the Funding is provided.

DFAT or Australia-Korea Foundation may publish the name of the Recipient (including personal information as defined by the Privacy Act 1998) and the amount and purpose of the Funding on its website and in its annual report and share such information with other Commonwealth government departments.

The Guild will pay the Funds to the Participant, subject to the Guild actually receiving those Funds from the Commonwealth, by installments in accordance with the payment provisions in set out in Schedule 1, Item D.

the author of any Project Material has given or will give a written consent to the Specified Acts (whether occurring before or after the consent is given) which is given directly or indirectly for the Guilds and the Commonwealth's benefit; and

The Participant must not represent itself, and must use its best endeavors to ensure that its Participant Personnel do not represent themselves, as being an officer, employee, partner or agent of the Guild or the Commonwealth, or as otherwise able to bind or represent the Guild or the Commonwealth.

12.1 will be reduced proportionally to the extent that any unlawful or negligent act or omission of the Guild or it's officers, employees or agents contributed to the loss or damage.

In these Conditions, the following words and expressions shall have the following meanings:

The headings in these Conditions are for ease of reference only and shall not affect the construction or interpretation of the Agreement.

During the Term of the Agreement and subject to the full and timely performance by the Advertiser of its obligations under the Agreement, dgm shall use all reasonable endeavors to provide the Services and the Advertiser shall take all reasonable steps and do all things necessary to facilitate dgm's performance of the Services.

As soon as practical after the execution of the Agreement including the Insertion Order and payment by the advertiser of the Annual dgmPro Access Fee and The Float, dgm shall provide the necessary access and documentation to the Advertiser to enable account setup and integration.

the Advertiser shall install and make fully functional as soon as reasonably practical the Action Tags on the Advertisers Website in accordance with any proposed campaign start date specified in the Insertion Order.

The Advertiser shall advise dgm as soon as possible of any change to the Advertiser's operating plans or marketing initiatives.

dgm may perform the Services in such manner that it deems fit in its reasonable discretion.

In the event that the Advertiser notifies dgm of any abuse or misuse of the Advertiser Links or any other materials then dgm shall take all reasonable steps to locate and rectify the problem.

Where the Advertiser enters into this Agreement as an agent for another person or party then the Advertiser acknowledges and agrees that it shall remain liable to dgm to comply with the Advertiser's obligations under the Agreement.

Any Publisher permitted to engage in Brand Bidding shall be identified in the Insertion Order provided however that dgm may in its absolute discretion withdraw at any time any such permission.

is withdrawn at any time then dgm shall use its reasonable endeavors to find a suitable replacement Publisher, and the details of the replacement Publisher will be deemed included on the Appendix to the Insertion Order in substitution of the replaced Publisher.

dgm and the Advertiser shall consult with each other in relation to which Publishers are permitted to Brand Bid.

Subject to the above, the Advertiser shall complete all clearances and other documentation reasonably required from time to time by search engines in order to enable such Brand Bidding.

In consideration of the provision of the Services by dgm, the Advertiser shall pay to dgm on the date of the Agreement and on each subsequent anniversary of this date the Annual dgmPro Access Fee as set out in the Insertion Order.

The Charges shall become due and payable on Validation where appropriate.

The Advertiser will regularly monitor the Tracking and in relation to each Action mark that Action as "pending", "deleted" or "validated".

Where the Advertiser marks the Action as Validated then a Charge shall be made by dgm to the Advertiser, this Charge shall be invoiced in the month in which the Action was Validated and paid according to clause 4.3 and 4.4

where the Advertiser identifies an Action as "deleted' then no Charge shall be made by dgm to the Advertiser.

Time shall be of the essence for all payments due to dgm under the Agreement.

GST, where applicable, shall be added to the Charges and invoiced to the Advertiser.

All payments to be made by the Advertiser under the Agreement will be made in full.

dgm may, having consulted with and by notice in writing to the Advertiser, increase the Float to a figure that it believes is a suitable amount to cover any foreseeable future payments due to the Media Owners and dgm.

dgm (and/or dgm's nominated adviser) shall have the right to inspect and audit the Advertiser's records of account throughout the Term and for a period of 1 year after expiration or termination of the Agreement.

If there is a discrepancy between the records of dgm and the Advertiser then the parties shall forthwith consult in good faith to identify the cause of such discrepancy.

The Advertiser acknowledges that where other companies or persons provide it with similar services using Cookie-based technology both dgm and the other service provider may claim Valid Actions where they have both cookied a potential customer.

Subject to Condition 5.2, the Advertiser shall retain all right, title and interest in and to the Advertiser's Intellectual Property Rights worldwide.

dgm shall retain all right, title and interest in and to any Action Tags and other materials of dgm worldwide (including, but not limited to, ownership of all dgm's Intellectual Property Rights).

Upon the termination of the Agreement, dgm shall forthwith cease using the Advertiser's Intellectual Property Rights and shall use all reasonable endeavors to ensure that any Publisher or other third party shall cease using the Advertiser's Intellectual Property Rights.

Each party acknowledges and agrees that it shall not acquire or claim any title to any of the other party's Intellectual Property Rights by virtue of the rights granted to it by the Agreement or through its use of the other party's Intellectual Property Rights.

the Advertiser shall promptly notify dgm of any approach or contact made by a Publisher in relation to or proposing a potential direct business relationship between the Advertiser and that Publisher or any other third party, and

The Advertiser shall not during the term of this Agreement or any extension either directly or indirectly, enter into a similar agreement or arrangement for the advertisement of any of its goods and services on the Internet provided by any third party affiliate/CPA network who in any way competes with dgm, nor for a period of 3 (three) months after the cessation of the dgm Agreement.

Subject to Condition 6.5, all conditions, warranties, representations or other terms concerning the supply of the Services which might otherwise be implied or incorporated into the Agreement or any collateral contract, whether by statute, common law, custom or otherwise, are hereby expressly excluded to the fullest extent permitted by law.

Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the Agreement, nothing in the Agreement shall operate to exclude or limit liability for:-

Subject only to Condition 6.8, dgm shall not be liable to the Advertiser for loss of sales, loss of profits, loss of customers or contracts, loss of reputation or goodwill, loss of savings, or any other special, indirect or consequential loss or damage whether foreseeable, known, foreseen or otherwise and whether arising from negligence, breach of contract or howsoever.

Except as provided by Conditions 8.2, 8.3 and 8.4, each party shall at all times during the continuance of the Agreement and after its termination:

Any Restricted Information may be disclosed by the recipient to:

Any Restricted Information may be used by the recipient for any purpose, or disclosed by the recipient to any other person, to the extent only that:

Where by this being agreed on the Insertion Order or in writing by the Advertiser, dgm may publicise its relationship with the Advertiser and disclose information relating to the relationship for dgm's marketing purposes, including to potential customers of dgm.

The Agreement shall continue in force for the period of time described in the Insertion Order unless and until either party gives not less than thirty (30) days' prior written notice or if there have been no Validations for a period of three months or more.

The termination of the Agreement shall not limit the enforceability of any of the rights or obligations of the parties that accrued before the termination date.

Conditions 4, 5, 6, 8, 9.2 and 11 shall survive the termination of the Agreement.

On termination of the Agreement (for whatever reason other than unremedied material breach of the Agreement by dgm) the Advertiser will, without prejudice to any other rights the Advertiser or dgm may have under the Agreement, pay all accrued but unpaid Charges.

The Advertiser shall not be entitled to assign, or sub-license, all or any part of its rights or obligations under the Agreement without the prior written consent of dgm.

Subject to the prior written consent of the Advertiser (which shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed), dgm may assign the Agreement or any of its rights and obligations hereunder to any other party provided that no such consent shall be required upon any assignment by dgm to any "holding company" or "subsidiary" as defined by section 9 of the Corporations Act 2001.

dgm shall be entitled to appoint any sub-contractor for the provision of the Services

The terms and conditions of the Agreement shall apply as between the parties in respect of the matters described in the Insertion Order to the exclusion of all other terms and conditions (including any terms and conditions that the Advertiser purports to apply).

No forbearance, delay or indulgence by either party in enforcing the provisions of the Agreement shall prejudice or restrict the rights of that party nor shall any waiver of its rights operate as a waiver of any subsequent breach and no right, power or remedy herein conferred upon or reserved for either party is exclusive of any other right, power or remedy available to that party and each such right, power or remedy shall be cumulative.

If any provision in the Agreement shall in whole or in part be held to any extent to be illegal or unenforceable under any enactment or rule of law then that provision or part shall to that extent be deemed not to form part of the Agreement and the enforceability of the remainder of the Agreement shall not be affected.

dgm and the Advertiser are each independent contractors with respect to each other and nothing in the Agreement shall create any association, partnership, joint

The Agreement contains the entire understanding of the parties with respect of the subject matter hereof, supersedes all prior agreements and may not be modified or amended except in writing signed by the parties.

All notices which are required to be given under the Agreement shall be in writing in the case of the Advertiser sent to the address set out in the Agreement and in the case of dgm to 200 Harris Street, Pyrmont, NSW, 2009; or such other address as the recipient may designate by notice given in accordance with the provisions of this Condition.

The Agreement is subject to the laws of New South Wales and shall be subject to the non-exclusive

we shall have no liability to you; and

you may not:

To the extent you provide information to 3D Procurement Solutions which may be "personal information" under the Privacy Act 1988 (Commonwealth), or any other equivalent legislation, our collection, use and disclosure is subject to our Privacy Policy.

You agree that 3D Procurement Solutions will own all Intellectual Property Rights in any suggestions, ideas, enhancement requests, feedback, recommendation or other information relating to the Site that you provide to us.

You agree that you will not reproduce, duplicate, copy, sell, trade, re-sell, adapt, communicate, public or otherwise exploit for any commercial purpose, any part of the Site, or the Site, including the Content.

You must not upload, post, email, transmit or otherwise make available any content that infringes any intellectual proprietary rights of any third party;

Any material downloaded or otherwise obtained through your use of the Site is done at your own discretion and risk and you will be solely responsible for any loss of data that results from the download of any such material, or the damage to your computer system, and any consequential loss or damage suffered or sustained by you.

You agree not to interfere or take any action that results, or may result in any interference with or disruption of the Site or servers or networks connected to the Site.

The internet exists across open public networks that may not be secure or private.

The Site may also contain e-mail services, bulletin boards and notices, discussion groups, or other message or communication facilities, allowing you to communicate with others individually or collectively as a group.

If any provision of the Terms and Conditions is held invalid, unenforceable or illegal for any reason, the Terms and Conditions will remain otherwise in full force and effect apart from such provision which shall be deemed severed.

No right under the Terms and Conditions will be deemed to be waived except by notice in writing signed by each party.

No rule of contract interpretation must be applied in the interpretation of these Terms and Conditions to the disadvantage of one party on the basis that it prepared or put forward these terms and conditions or any document comprising part of these terms and conditions.

The Licensee shall not and shall ensure that its employees, agents and any sub-licensee or third party to this Agreement, shall not use the data in any way other than for the purpose and in the manner set out in Item 4 of Schedule A, without the prior written consent from the Licensor.

Unless otherwise agreed by the parties, the Licensee shall not distribute the product to any person without the prior written consent of the Licensor.

Unless otherwise agreed by the parties, the Licensee shall not use the data to produce materials for sale to a third party, or for general sale, without the prior written consent of the Licensor.

All intellectual property rights in the data, including but not limited to copyright, shall remain vested in the Licensor and are unaffected by this Agreement.

Except as provided in this Agreement or as required by law, the Licensee shall not, without the prior written consent of the Licensor, disclose the data to a third party and, if that consent is given, the Licensee shall make known to the third party to whom the data is disclosed that the Licensor is the owner of the data and the copyright therein and shall require the third party to give to the Licensee a written undertaking, in a form satisfactory to the Licensor, that it shall observe and perform with respect to the data terms and conditions similar to those contained in this Agreement.

The Licensor shall not be liable for any loss, damage or injury suffered by the Licensee or any third party that may arise from the use of the data.

If the Licensee is found to be in breach of the Agreement, the Licensor may terminate the Agreement immediately by notice in writing to the Licensee.

Upon termination or expiration of this Agreement the following will happen:

Notices under this Agreement may be delivered by prepaid postage or certified mail, by hand or by facsimile transmission.

You may not distribute the information (in any form) obtained from the Program or Your use of the Program to third parties, "mirror" or include the information on Your own server, or modify or re-use the information without Our prior written permission.

You and the Users must not print or download copies of information contained in or obtained from the Program.

Without limitation, You must not, and must ensure that Your users do not, copy or reproduce by any means (including electronically) any Confidential Information.

The information in, and obtained from, the Program may include errors and We make no warranty that the information in or obtained through use of the Program is error free.

You acknowledge that We have not made, and that no person acting on Our behalf has made, any representation that use of the Program (or the Software) will not infringe any third party's intellectual property rights.

Without limiting any other right of termination under this agreement, either party may terminate this agreement at any time on 3 months' written notice to the other party.

Without limiting any other right of termination under this agreement, We may terminate this agreement immediately on notice to You if:

Upon termination Your access to the Program ceases immediately and You must return or destroy all documentation provided to You by Us.

You may not assign or transfer any of Your rights or obligations under this agreement without Our prior written consent which may be given or withheld in our absolute discretion.

If any Goods and Services Tax (GST) is payable by a party on a taxable supply made under or in relation to this agreement, the party paying the consideration for the supply must also pay any GST.

A party may terminate this agreement by giving the other party no less than three months' written notice.

The parties may amend schedule 1 at any time by written agreement.

The parties will apply a risk management process consistent with AS 4360 Risk Management to identify, assess and manage, so far as is reasonably practicable, risks to safety in relation to the rail or road crossings the subject of this agreement.

Each party will record this agreement in the party's register of Interface Agreements.

The parties will identify and assess risks to safety, so far as is reasonably practicable, that may arise in relation to the rail or road crossings the subject of this agreement:

The parties will record in schedule 3:

The parties may amend schedule 3 at any time by written agreement.

Subject to clause 4.5, the party responsible for implementation and maintenance of the safety risk management measures will be responsible for their cost of implementation and maintenance.

A party may agree to contribute to the funding of the cost of implementation and/or maintenance by another party of safety risk management measures.

The parties may undertake identification and assessment of safety risks individually or jointly, or may adopt a risk assessment carried out by the other party.

Each party will continuously monitor and review the safety risks and measures to manage the safety risks for which it is responsible, including progress against the timetable for implementation of safety risk management measures.

The parties will consult with each other in relation to the outcome of their monitor and review.

If, following a party's monitor and review under this clause 5, a safety risk is considered to be unacceptable, the parties will work collaboratively and cooperatively to agree measures to manage the safety risk so far as is reasonably practicable and will record any changes in schedule 3.

Each party will report annually to the other party, or at such other times that the parties may agree, on its progress in implementing agreed safety risk management measures for which it is responsible under this agreement.

A party may, at its cost, undertake an independent audit of another party's records of compliance with this agreement, upon giving reasonable written notice to the other party.

The parties will notify each other promptly of any occurrence or incident in connection with safety of the rail or road crossings the subject of this agreement.

Schedule 4 contains details of the parties' representatives for the purposes of this agreement, together with emergency contact details in the event of any occurrence or incident The parties will promptly notify the other parties of any changes to schedule 4.

The parties will meet annually, or at such other times the parties may agree, to review the provisions of this agreement and the adequacy of safety risk identification, assessment and management concerning the rail or road crossings the subject of this agreement.

The costs of holding meetings under this clause 7 will be shared equally between the parties.

Should a dispute arise between the parties in connection with this agreement, a party may issue a written notice of dispute to the other party.

Within 5 business days of receipt of a notice of dispute senior officers of each party will meet to discuss the dispute.

If the senior officers are unable to resolve the dispute, chief executive officers of the parties will meet within 5 business days to attempt to resolve the dispute.

If the chief executive officers of the parties are unable to resolve the dispute, the dispute will be referred for conciliation to the IAMA in accordance with the Conciliation Rules of the IAMA.

If the conciliation process is unsuccessful, the dispute will be referred to [ insert ], for determination.

Meetings under this clause 8 may be held by telephone.

the charges for the provision of the services described in clause 1 shall be as described in the Specifications.

the payment schedule for the said services shall be made according to the Specifications.

subject to the Specifications all sums becoming due and payable to GEO INSTRUMENTS by the CLIENT shall be pay-able to GEO INSTRUMENTS at its office hereinbefore described, in Australian dollars AND IT IS HEREBY AGREED AND DECLARED that any sum of money to be paid or tendered by either party hereto shall be validly and effectually paid or tendered if such payment is given, delivered or made in legal currency or by bank cheque or by the party's own cheque after presentment and clearance.

GEO INSTRUMENTS shall not be liable to the CLIENT for any loss or damage, consequential or otherwise, suffered by the CLIENT either during the continuance of this Agreement or subsequent, if by force majeure (as defined in clause 4 (d)) GEO INSTRUMENTS is rendered unable, wholly or in part, to carry out its obligations under this Agreement, or is delayed in its operation to be performed pursuant to this Agreement.

In the event of the force majeure not being removed within that number of days of the date of occurrence thereof specified in Schedule 4 hereto, then either party may by notice in writing determine this Agreement and thereafter no party shall be under any further obligation to the other party, except that GEO INSTRUMENTS will supply to the CLIENT all information acquired to the date of the existence of the force majeure, and will be paid in full for its services rendered to the date of the existence of the force majeure in the manner provided hereinbefore.

The term "force majeure" shall include but not be limited to fire, floods, storms and other damage of the elements, strikes, riots and civil disturbances, acts of God, acts of the enemy including but not limited to wars, blockades or insurrections, or direct legislative or administrative interference or any acts whatsoever by the Government of the Commonwealth of Australia or by the Government of the State or Territory where GEO INSTRUMENTS is at the material time or times carrying out the services for the CLIENT pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement and any other cause whether of the kind specifically enumerated above or otherwise which is not reasonably within the control of GEO INSTRUMENTS but shall not include a party's lack of finance.

GEO INSTRUMENTS will during the continuance of this Agreement save and hold harmless the CLIENT from all suits, claims, causes of action, liability and damages, brought, aserted or recovered against the CLIENT, including the amount of the CLIENT's reasonable legal costs (on a party basis) associated therewith, arising out of any deliberate or negligent act or omission of GEO INSTRUMENTS in the performance of its duties and obligations pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement.

GEO INSTRUMENTS will during the continuance of this Agreement maintain in full force and effect insurance against risks to persons and property which may occur in the course of providing any services under this Agreement, including Public Liability and Workers' Compensation Insurance to the maxima specified in Schedule 5 hereof and will deliver to the CLIENT, if so requested by the CLIENT in writing, copies of relevant policies endorsed to enable the CLIENT to make claim thereunder and proof of payment of relevant premiums.

GEO INSTRUMENTS hereby agrees that any confidential documents and information provided to it by the CLIENT to enable it to perform its obligations and duties under this Agreement shall be held in confidence by GEO INSTRUMENTS until such time as it is in the public domain and may be utilised solely for the performance of its obligations and duties hereunder and shall be returned to the CLIENT upon receipt by GEO INSTRUMENTS of a written request for same AND GEO INSTRUMENTS further agrees and acknowledges that all specifications, results, data materials and maps relating to the services to be provided hereunder are the sole property of the CLIENT AND FURTHER GEO INSTRUMENTS shall use their best endeavours to ensure that its lawful employees, agents and contractors shall not without the prior written consent of the CLIENT retain for its or their own use, duplicate or disclose to any third party any such said confidential documents and information.

The CLIENT hereby agrees that any confidential documents, programmes, processes or materials which do not incorporate any part of the CLIENT'S documents, programmes, processes or materials used by GEO INSTRUMENTS better to perform its obligations and duties under this Agreement shall be held at all material times in confidence by the CLIENT AND the CLIENT further agrees that it shall use its best endeavours to ensure that its lawful employees, agents and contractors shall not without the prior written consent of GEO INSTRUMENTS duplicate or disclose to any third party any such confidential documents or information as hereinbefore described.

The CLIENT may by written notice to GEO INSTRUMENTS request changes in the manner and mode of service to be rendered by GEO INSTRUMENTS hereunder and in the event that any such said changes causes either an increase or a decrease in the cost of the said service and, or in the alternative, in the time required for the proper performance of the said service, GEO INSTRUMENTS shall within thirty (30) days of the date of receipt of the said notice requesting the change, formally notify the CLIENT in writing of its claim, if any, for any adjustment to be made to either the charges to be rendered hereunder and, or in the

Save as provided in clause 7, the CLIENT hereby acknowledges that the issuance of any information, advice, approvals or instructions by any of its technical personnel or representatives shall be deemed to be expressions of personal opinions only and shall not affect either GEO INSTRUMENTS' or the CLIENT's rights and duties hereunder unless the same shall be in writing and in accordance with the provisions of clause 8(a).

No failure on the part of either party to exercise, nor any delay in exercising, any right or remedy under any provision of this Agreement shall operate as a waiver thereof; nor shall any single or partial exercise of, or failure to exercise, any right or remedy prevent any further or other exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right or remedy.

This Agreement may be terminated upon thirty (30) days written notice by the CLIENT hereto.

Upon receipt by GEO INSTRUMENTS of such written notice as referred to in clause 10(a) GEO INSTRUMENTS shall within sixty (60) days of the date of termination furnish the CLIENT with its claim for all work performed by it prior to the date of termination including the costs of acquisition and processing and mobilisation and demobilisation.

Upon payment by the CLIENT to GEO INSTRUMENTS of its claim as referred to in clause 10(b) GEO INSTRUMENTS shall provide the CLIENT with all completed programmes, reports, data diagrams and other materials generated and obtained during and in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.

days of the date on which the notice is received the dispute shall be referred to arbitration by the two arbitrators, one selected by each party.

In the event that there is more than one party named in Schedule 2, every covenant or agreement expressed or implied in this Agreement shall bind all such parties jointly and each of them severally and each provision expressed or implied in this Agreement which applies to more parties than one shall apply to such parties and every two or more of them jointly and each of them severally;

Relationship to SACS Award It is a term of this agreement that all the terms and conditions of the Social and Community Services - Victoria - Award 2000 (SACS Award) as at the date of certification of this agreement shall continue to apply to all employees eligible to be members of the union.

New employees to be covered by Agreement An employee commencing his or her employment with VCOSS after the date on which this agreement comes into operation shall be employed in accordance with the terms of this agreement.

Security of Employment The parties to this agreement shall take steps to ensure that VCOSS has a stable, committed and secure workforce.

Leave Reserved Leave is reserved to the parties to this agreement to discuss and introduce further agreed changes within the organisation that will enhance the efficiency and effectiveness of the organisation or enhance the conditions of employment of employees.

Casual employment A casual employee shall mean an employee who is engaged for work of an intermittent, irregular and non-ongoing nature, and who is engaged as a casual in accordance with clause 8.3 of this agreement.

Expression of interest (EOI) A role may be advertised via an EOI to ascertain the level of interest for a role within the organisation, without conducting a full recruitment process.

Fixed term employment A fixed term employee shall mean an employee who is engaged to work in a position that is temporary in nature for a specified period of time or for a specified task.

Full time employment (FTE) A full time employee shall mean an employee who is engaged to work 37.5 hours of ordinary time per week.

Position Descriptions VCOSS will provide a position description for all positions within the organisation.

Concurrent Internal and External Advertising From time to time there may be instances where it is necessary to advertise appointments internally and externally concurrently.

Short term vacancies If the internal advertising process is unsuccessful when recruiting for a short term position, suitably qualified people (internal or external to VCOSS) can be invited to apply, removing the requirement to advertise externally if the position is able to be filled in this manner.

Interview Process Interview Panels All appointments will require an interview.

Full time Employment A full time employee shall mean an employee who is engaged to work 37.5 hours of ordinary time per week in accordance with the provisions of clause 9 Hours of Work.

Part time Employment A part time employee shall mean an employee who is engaged to work regular ordinary hours of less than 37.5 per week.

Casual Employment Casual employment will not be used to undermine the job security of full time and part time employees engaged under this agreement, and will be limited to: ?

Fixed term Employment Fixed term employees will be entitled to the provisions contained within this agreement unless otherwise specified.

Consultants and contractors Consultants or contractors will be engaged only in cases where specialist and/or technical expertise or equipment is required and where the task is something not ordinarily to be done by people employed under the EBA.

Job Sharing In recognition of the changing nature of work and to support work-life balance, VCOSS will support job sharing.

Changes to Status of Employment An employee's status of employment can be altered at any time, so long as the following conditions are met: ?

hours per week and shall be worked in accordance with clause 9.2 Spread of Hours.

Part Time Hours Employees who are employed part time will have their hours of work per fortnight specified in their letter of employment.

weeks of purchased leave will be identified separately from annual leave and will be known as additional leave.

hours in total, pro rata for part-time employees, and must be taken within six (6) months, unless exceptional circumstances prevent this from occurring.

Redundancy of this agreement, shall be paid out any outstanding time-in-lieu hours.

Working at Home VCOSS recognises that sometimes working at home may be necessary.

Variations to entitlement to leave If an employee has significantly varied their hours of work during the course of their employment, their entitlements to long service leave and paid maternity leave will be paid at the greater of: ?

Annual Leave Employees shall be entitled to annual leave on full pay for a period equal to four (4) working weeks for each continuous twelve (12) month service, as per the SACS award.

Sick Leave Sick leave entitlements, in accordance with the SACS Award, shall be cumulative from the time of employment and determined in accordance with the following rate: ?

days at a time must produce a medical certificate supplied by a recognised health practitioner.

Bereavement/Compassionate Leave Upon the death of a near relative, an employee will be entitled to three (3) ordinary days paid leave, which will include the day of the funeral.

Personal and Family Leave The purpose of this clause is to enable employees with caring responsibilities to take a limited amount of time off during ordinary working hours without loss of pay to meet those responsibilities, where it would be unreasonable to expect them to make alternative arrangements.

consecutive days, the employee will provide a medical certificate.

years of service, in accordance with the following table: Length of service Weeks payable 5 years 6.5 6 years 7.8 7 years 9.1 8 years 10.4 9 years 11.7 10 years 13.0 Long Service Leave will be paid at the employee's current pay rate unless the employee has significantly varied their hours of work during the course of their employment (as detailed above).

Study Leave Employees may be entitled to take study leave without loss of pay in order to undertake a course of study (or part of a course) relevant to their current position/role, other organisational needs or career advancement, as approved by their manager.

Classification Structure VCOSS will classify staff in accordance with the classification level and descriptors as set out in APPENDIX 1: CLASSIFICATION STRUCTURE.

Salary Structure Refer to APPENDIX 2: SALARY STRUCTURE for salary levels 11.3 Annual Indexation of Salaries The salary structure in Appendix 2 will be indexed annually at 3.25%, payable for the whole of the first pay period ending on or after 1 July each year and subsequent pay periods in that financial year.

Incremental Advances All employees will be entitled to annual incremental progression within the salary and classification level, until the maximum increment is reached.

Movement Between Classification Levels Movement between classification levels, eg from Level 2 to Level 3, will occur when the following conditions are met: ?

Higher Duties Payment Any employee who is called upon to perform the duties of another employee on a higher classification under the agreement for a period of five (5) consecutive working days or more shall receive higher duties allowance.

Petty Cash Reimbursements In recognition of the expenses incurred by employees for work related purposes/activities VCOSS will reimburse any reasonable expenses through petty cash.

Travel Reimbursements Any employee who is required to stay away overnight will have to option to choose either an allowance of $116 (annually indexed in the same manner as salaries), or to take 3.75 hours time-in-lieu (to be taken in accordance with TIL procedure).

Accommodation) Intrastate Travel Where employees are required to travel within the state to regional areas for work purposes, the employee may have the option to choose an overnight stay where they are unable to return home within normal business hours from the destination.

Transport Taxi Fares Taxis may be used if travel by public transport is not possible, practical or convenient.

Accommodation VCOSS will cover the cost for any reasonable accommodation expenses, incurred for work related purposes outside the Melbourne metropolitan area.

Employee Representatives As part of its commitment to regular consultation and communication with all staff, employee representatives will be elected or nominated by employees to represent their interests in organisational processes.

Time allowances All employee representatives shall be entitled to devote reasonable time to attend to representation issues on the job in addition to committee responsibilities (which include preparing for and attending committee meetings, and any tasks undertaken for the committee).

Training All employee representatives shall be entitled to paid training leave as necessary for their particular role.

Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) VCOSS recognises its obligation, under the Occupation Health and Safety Act 2004, and will act in accordance with Section 21 to take all reasonable precautions to provide and maintain, so far as is practicable, an environment that is safe and without risks to health for employees, volunteers and visitors.

Employee OHS responsibilities: Under Section 25 of the Occupational Health and Safety Act 2004, while at work, an employee must: ?

OHS Training VCOSS will provide training to all staff on OHS matters: ?

Harassment and Bullying Harassment and bullying are unacceptable behaviours that will not be tolerated at VCOSS under any circumstances.

1. of this agreement, and, where necessary, disciplinary action will be taken in accordance with clause 16.2.

parties should negotiate how the situation may be improved.

warnings, the staff member will be required to attend a further meeting at which a decision regarding their future employment will be made.

Resignation An employee wishing to terminate their employment shall do so by providing four weeks notice in writing.

Dismissal Termination of employment by VCOSS will not be harsh, unjust or unreasonable having regard to all circumstances.

months will be entitled, upon request, to receive a letter of reference written by their manager or CEO.

a) The Employer may cancel this booking by delivery of written notice to the office of the Agency not later than thirty days before the date set for the performance where upon this agreement will be terminated and the Employer will forfeit the first installment.

On receipt of that notice by the other parties, the parties must endeavour in good faith to resolve the Dispute expeditiously using informal dispute resolution techniques such as mediation expert evaluation or determination or similar techniques agreed by them.

The mediator shall then give such direction as may be required for the purposes of bringing the parties together for mediation and no party shall be at the liberty to commence Court or Arbitration proceedings until such time as the Mediator has certified that as in his opinion there is no reasonable likelihood of the mediation being successful.

The costs of the Mediator will be borne equally by both parties.

You may obtain a copy of the latest version of the general terms, service description, standard pricing table and appendices from us or on our website: www.simplus.com.au/SFOA.

Where you may be charged a fee or charge, then this fee or charge is set out in the standard pricing table.

We may elect to provide you with access to the service via an alternative access method or an alternative service comparable to the service.

Due to technical reasons, we are not able to guarantee that calls to '13' prefix numbers will be diverted to the nearest location for that '13' prefix number.

If you breach paragraph (a) above, we may, in addition to and without limiting our other rights under the agreement, immediately suspend or cancel the service by giving you notice.

You may change pricing plan:

Under the terms of your pricing plan there may be conditions attached to changing your pricing plan.

If you do not already have a SIMplus SIM card for use with the service, we will give you a SIMplus SIM card.

We may request that you return the SIMplus SIM card if we issue you with a replacement SIMplus SIM card or we no longer supply the service to you.

You must not interfere with or impair the operation of the SIMplus SIM card.

You must notify us as soon as possible if the SIMplus SIM card we have given you is lost or stolen and we will bar outgoing calls, suspend the service or activate Optus IMEI blocking on your mobile phone (see clause 9 below).

For an additional charge, you may apply for a specific phone number.

We may be required to vary, withdraw, suspend or re-assign a phone number we have allocated you in order for us to comply with the numbering regulations.

We will give you as much notice as is reasonably practicable if we have to do this.

You may request a new phone number.

If you need a new phone number because you have received calls of a harassing nature and you reported the matter to the relevant law enforcement agency, we will supply you with a new phone number free of charge on the first two occasions.

If you stop obtaining the service and do not port the phone number, we may re-allocate the phone number to another customer in accordance with the numbering regulations.

We will not charge you a fee for porting a phone number from another carrier or carriage service provider.

You must not cancel the service you have with the other carrier or carriage service provider before you port the phone number.

You may need a new mobile phone or you may need to have your mobile phone unlocked if you are porting between different types of mobile networks.

We may charge you a fee to port the phone number to another carrier or carriage service provider.

You must not cancel the service before you port the phone number.

You can only port the phone number, you cannot port any value added services.

You may only port a phone number for which you are the authorised customer.

If we ask you to provide proof, you must provide us with that proof within ten (10) business days.

What can we do if your mobile phone is faulty or interferes with the service?

What should you do if your mobile phone is lost or stolen?

What charges will you incur when the service is suspended or Optus IMEI blocking is activated?

Customers with hearing impairments who wish to access the TTY 106 emergency services number from their mobile phone should be aware that this number may not work from some blocked mobile phones.

In what other circumstances could we block your mobile phone?

If you obtain a mobile phone that we reasonably believe is lost or stolen, we may contact Optus and request Optus IMEI blocking to be activated on your mobile phone without your consent, even if you are not aware it is stolen.

If you obtain the service from us under false pretences, we may contact Optus and request Optus IMEI blocking to be activated on your mobile phone without your consent.

In the event that we know you have made an insurance claim when your mobile phone is lost or stolen, if Optus IMEI blocking is not already activated we will contact Optus and request Optus IMEI blocking to be activated on your mobile phone.

When another person calls you, the phone number of that person may be displayed on your mobile phone if that person has not barred CLI on their phone.

For how long can we temporarily suspend the service?

The maximum length of time the service can be temporarily suspended is three months.

If you wish to extend the temporary suspension for longer than three months, you must contact us before the end of the three month period or we may reactivate or cancel the service.

We may choose to bar outgoing and/or incoming calls and/or content on your mobile phone, instead of suspending the service.

If we bar outgoing and/or incoming calls and/or content on your mobile phone, we may later suspend or cancel the service for the same or a different reason.

"Relevant Senior Executive" shall mean such senior officer of the University as designated by the Vice-Chancellor to undertake responsibility for academic staff relations and related processes

This Agreement shall be binding according to its terms upon:

The University may enter into Australian Workplace Agreements (AWAs) with its employees.

At the time of offering an AWA, the University will advise any staff member or prospective staff member of their right to appoint a Bargaining Agent and will allow the staff member or prospective staff member at least 14 or 7 days respectively to consider the AWA as required.

Alongside other avenues of consultation, the ASCC will provide for direct consultation with employees and where they so choose their representatives, and the University on workplace relations and human resource matters.

In the event of a casual vacancy of an ASCC elected staff representative a replacement representative will be duly elected in accordance with 8.2(a).

The combined amount of salary packaged benefits must generally not exceed 50% of the employee's gross base salary, except where the employee specifically requests a higher percentage be packaged as superannuation.

Access to salary packaging for staff who elect to pursue it will commence in the first pay period following finalisation by the relevant parties of the salary packaging arrangement.

The University agrees that, should there be any changes to the superannuation arrangements in effect as of the date of lodgement of this Agreement; the University will consult with the ASCC to give effect to the intent of subclause 13.1.

A clinical loading may be payable to academic staff who have clinically-related qualifications.

An additional state supplementary loading may be payable to academic staff who undertake public hospital clinical responsibilities.

Teaching opportunities should be made available to postgraduate research students through mechanisms such as appointment as Tutorial Assistants and Tutorial Fellows ("TA"/"TF").

Tutorial Assistants and Tutorial Fellows will be remunerated pro rata as Level A academic staff and will work under the terms and conditions of their specific appointment.

The University will consult with the ASCC on the best means of providing teaching opportunities to postgraduate students.

Each academic staff member, with the exceptions listed in 17.4 below, will submit annually to his/her supervisor, a portfolio covering achievements in the broad areas of-

The supervisor will conduct a formal review with each staff member after the presentation of the portfolio.

The outcomes from the review will be one or more of the following, as relevant to the particular circumstances of the academic staff member:

The University shall, where funds are available, establish a staff development program.

The staff development program should offer staff members the opportunity to develop their skills and effectiveness within the University, and to promote improved performance and efficiency through staff development.

Staff development should be compatible with the development of equal opportunity and affirmative action policies, and offer staff avenues to develop in identified areas.

Staff development programs should include components for:

All academic staff shall have access to a range of staff development opportunities, including but not restricted to:

Each academic shall have a nominated supervisor, and shall be advised in writing of the name and position of the nominated supervisor.

Supervisors shall provide academic and administrative leadership and are responsible for monitoring the performance of academics and for providing assistance to academics whose performance is assessed as requiring improvement.

The supervisor shall be the head of the academic unit in which the academic is employed, provided that the Vice Chancellor may delegate in writing another academic staff member classified at Level C or above to be supervisor of one or more academics or group of academics.

The supervisor shall within three months of being nominated, receive appropriate training in academic staff assessment techniques and the provisions of this Agreement.

Nothing in this clause prevents an academic staff member who is head of an academic organisational unit which is not a sub-component of any larger academic organisational unit (such a unit may be called a "Faculty", "Division" or similar title) being made directly responsible to the Vice Chancellor, in which case the terms of subclauses 19.1 to 19.4 of this clause shall have no application to the academic staff member.

Disciplinary action should be used as a last resort.

The timelines referred to in Clauses 23, 24 and 25 may be varied by mutual agreement between the Relevant Senior Executive and the staff member.

This clause and clauses 23, 24, and 25 shall have no application to casual academic staff.

The Vice Chancellor may dismiss with notice a probationary academic on the grounds that their performance in relation to the criteria set out in HUPP 5.41.5: Appointment, Probation and Confirmation of Continuing Appointment (Academic Staff) is not satisfactory and provided that:

shall be entitled to notice, compensation or procedural requirements as specified in the academic's contract of employment or in clause 36.2 of this Agreement, whichever is the greater.

Where a supervisor, after utilising some or all of the processes set out in clause 21.1, forms the view that the performance of an academic is unsatisfactory, they shall discuss this with the academic.

Where a supervisor receives a complaint or complaints against an academic or otherwise forms the view that an academic's behaviour could constitute misconduct or serious misconduct, the supervisor may conduct or commission an investigation.

The relevant senior executive may require, in writing, any staff member, whose capacity to perform the duties of his or her office is in doubt, to undergo medical examination.

The relevant senior executive shall provide a staff member with written notice of not less than 2 months that a medical examination is required and ensure that any action taken under this clause is in accordance with University policy 5.70.13 Medical Conditions Affecting Performance.

Where the staff member makes application to their superannuation fund for ill health retirement or temporary disability benefit prior to the expiry of the period of notice, the staff member cannot be required to attend a medical examination in accordance with sub clause 25.1 until one of the following circumstances:

If the medical examination reveals that the staff member is unable to perform his or her duties and is unlikely to be able to resume them within a reasonable period, being not less than 12 months, the relevant senior executive may, terminate the employment of the staff member in accordance with the notice required by the staff member's contract of employment or where no notice is specified in accordance with clause 36.2 of this Agreement.

If within 10 working days of the report being made available, the staff member or a person acting on their behalf so requests, the relevant senior executive shall not terminate the employment of the staff member in accordance with subclause 25.5 unless and until the findings of the report are confirmed by a panel consisting of three medical practitioners, one of whom shall be appointed by the University, one by the staff member or by a person acting on his or her behalf, and one by the President of the State Branch of the Australian Medical Association.

In making an assessment as to whether or not a staff member is unable to perform his or her duties and is unlikely to be able to resume them within a reasonable period, the medical practitioner or panel of medical practitioners appointed pursuant to this clause shall as far as possible apply the same standards as are used by the staff member's superannuation scheme, if any, in determining qualification for the payment of a disablement pension or other similar benefit.

The relevant senior executive may construe failure by a staff member to undergo a medical examination in accordance with these procedures as prima facie evidence that such a medical examination would have found that the staff member is unable to perform his or her duties and is unlikely to be able to resume them within 12 months, and may act accordingly, provided that such a refusal by a staff member in these circumstances shall not constitute misconduct nor lead to any greater penalty or loss of entitlements than would have resulted from an adverse medical report.

The parties to this Agreement acknowledge that, subject to subclause 26.2, academic staff may be required to:

Heads must ensure that staff are consulted, and that workloads are allocated fairly and distributed equitably among staff in the School, taking into account reasonable consideration of family and personal responsibilities.

Changes to the guidelines will be subject to consultation with the ASCC and affected academic staff.

Should a staff member believe that the workload assigned by a Head is inequitable or unreasonable, the staff member may invoke the procedures set out in the Staff Grievance Resolution Policy.

A relevant senior manager may assess that restructuring will be required for reasons such as, but not limited to, the following:

The expiry of a fixed term contract/s in accordance with its/their own terms will not be regarded as a restructuring or a redundancy which attracts the provisions of this clause.

The Proposal shall be forwarded to the University Standing Committee for Change Management (Academic Staff) for consideration.

The University Standing Committee for Change Management (Academic Staff) will be established at the commencement of the agreement and comprise:

Human Resources Division will provide a non-voting Secretary for the Committee and the elected staff representatives may nominate an observer to offer technical advice.

If the Committee calls for modifications, these will be considered by the relevant manager.

The Proposal and the Committee's recommendations will be forwarded to the Senior Deputy Vice-Chancellor who will, after due and proper consideration, will reject or approve the Proposal for implementation.

The relevant manager will first decide, having regard to the operational requirements of the unit, whether fractional appointment can be offered to some or all of those who have expressed interest.

The relevant manager will apply the criteria contained in the Proposal as approved by the Senior Deputy Vice-Chancellor when identifying positions as surplus.

Any staff member who holds a position which has been identified as surplus, may apply for redeployment in accordance with the provisions of subclause 28.8 and policy 5.70.14: Redeployment Arising from Redundancy or Medical Condition and/or may seek a review in accordance with sub-clause 28.9.

A staff member who holds a position which has been identified as surplus and who does not apply for redeployment nor a review will be paid a severance payment in accordance with sub-clause 28.10 and leave the employment of the University at the earliest opportunity.

The University will notify the staff member of possible redeployment opportunities.

Where redeployment to lower level position occurs the University will protect the member's superannuation entitlements by continuing to pay the employer's superannuation contribution at the member's previous classification salary rate and will also pay the difference between the member's former contribution at the old salary level and the member's contribution at the new salary level (after accounting for employer contributions and tax) for a maximum period of 5 years.

A Review Panel, comprising a senior manager nominated by the relevant senior executive (in the Chair), a nominee of the academic staff members on the ASCC and an Executive Dean/Deputy Vice-Chancellor, will be established as soon as practicable, but no later than 5 working days after receipt of the application for review.

All relevant information will be provided to the Review Panel.

The Panel may interview any person it thinks fit.

The Review Panel will transmit its recommendation to the Senior Deputy Vice-Chancellor who will make the decision.

A staff member whose position is made redundant will be given a severance payment and will leave employment at the University at the earliest opportunity.

The severance payment will be an amount calculated in accordance with the method set out below, paid as a lump sum by the University and concessionally taxed.

The amount paid will be calculated as follows, for each individual staff member:

For the purposes of calculating service, casual service will not be counted.

Where a staff member is redeployed into a fixed term position and the redeployment ceases as a result of the non-renewal of a fixed term contract by the University the staff member will remain entitled to the full amount of the severance payment (calculated as above) for a period of 3 months after the initial redeployment.

Where the redeployment ceases after a period of 3 months as a result of the non renewal of a fixed term contract by the University the staff member will remain entitled to a severance payment calculated as above as from the date of 3 months after the initial redeployment less the number of weeks paid under the fixed term contract/s after the 3 month period provided that long service leave shall be calculated from the last date of actual employment with the University.

weeks for each completed years of service after 10 years of continuous service Entitled to take a minimum of 2 weeks leave on six months notice; employees can be required to take a minimum of 4 weeks leave where accrual is greater then 18 weeks subject to transition arrangements in policy 5.60.7 Part-time employees Pro rata the full time rate Casual employees with appointments after 30 March 1994 and who have been employed on a regular basis with no break between appointments greater than 13 weeks

In the exercise of Academic Freedom, employees will act in a professional and ethical manner and will not harass, vilify, intimidate or defame the institution or its employees.

(s) or contingency relating to a specific task or project, upon occurrence of which the term of the employment shall expire and for which, during the term of employment, the contract is not terminable, by the University, other than during a probationary period, or for cause based upon serious or wilful misconduct, or a persistent pattern of unsatisfactory performance.

within 10 working days, it shall be referred to the relevant senior executive who shall arrange a conference of the parties to the dispute and where they so choose their representative(s) and any other relevant staff to discuss the matter and advise the parties to the dispute.

The University will make a decision and inform all those involved within 5 working days.

If the decision is not accepted, the matter may be referred to the Australian Industrial Relations Commission (AIRC) by either party for determination.

years continuous service shall be entitled to an additional week's notice.

weeks of the expiry of a period of fixed-term employment, then payment of severance benefits may be deferred for a maximum period of four (4) weeks from the expiry of the period of fixed-term employment.

(a) or (b) hereof the Principal and Contractor shall sign the Security Key Return Form in the format attached to this Agreement.

in the event that this Agreement is terminated pursuant to Clause 13 or Clause 14 of this Agreement the Contractor shall not contact the Principal's client by any means without the written consent of the Principal;

for providing that part of the plant and equipment which is obtained on hire purchase or is owned by the Contractor - an amount equal to a per cent figure as agreed from time of the amount which the Contractor is entitled to claim by way of depreciation for the plant and equipment during that year under the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 (Cwth), or such other amount as the parties may agree upon from time to time;

The Company will contact the Writer to seek consent by making every reasonable effort in writing to contact the Writer to inform him that a request is being made for material alterations possibly outside Clause 5.1;

After receiving notice from the Writer within the notice period specified in clause 5.2(c), the Company will nominate a time and place for such consultation at which the Writer may express views with regard to the proposed use or material alteration.

As the ACTISA is solely responsible for the accreditation of participants from the ACT in interstate events, the Athlete agrees that this Agreement has precedence over any other agreement the Athlete has or may have with their Club, employer, manager, agent, consultant, adviser, coach or any other person or body with whom the Athlete may have contracted to provide services.

The athlete understands that any other agreement that they have or may have does not affect their eligibility under the Ice Skating Union (ISU) Rule 102.

This Agreement will commence on the date the Agreement is executed and will conclude 28 days after the completion of the competition.

The Athlete must submit competition entry forms to ACTISA Secretary by the specified due dates.

If the Athlete suffers or has suffered any illness, disease, injury or pre-existing medical condition during the 12 months preceding the Agreement or during the duration of the Agreement, the Athlete should provide details to the ACTISA ADCO.

If the Athlete has consulted a medical practitioner, sports scientist or therapist for the condition, a report from the relevant consultant should be provided to the ACTISA ADCO.

This information should be provided as soon as practicable after the Agreement commences, or as soon as practicable after the Athlete suffers the illness, disease, or injury during the term of the Agreement.

The ACTISA ADCO may make full disclosure to ACTISA Committee, ISA Board of Management, ISA Chief Medical Officer, ISA Anti-Doping Control Officer and Team Leader or official of any information obtained pursuant to this clause including any diagnosis or treatment that has been made or prescribed;

If the Athlete does not provide this information as required, the Athlete should write to the ACTISA and explain why this information has not been provided.

The Athlete agrees to undergo such fitness testing as may be reasonably required by ACTISA.

The Team Leader or Team Official, acting on advice from a professional medical person, may direct the Athlete not to participate in an event if, in their opinion, participation would constitute an unacceptable risk of:

The costs incurred arising from any damages caused to property whilst competing nationally will be the sole responsibility of that person and in the case of a minor, their respective parents/guardians will be responsible for payment of any damages incurred to property or incidentals.

If the Team Leader or any other designated person receives an invoice from ISA, the ISU, Organizing Committee or respective accomodation, for damages incurred as a result of one or several members of the ACT Team, such members will be removed from the ACT team until such time as the debt is repaid.

If the Athlete breaches this Agreement at any time (including during a national competition or championship event), ACTISA may take the following sanctions against the Athlete:

Depending upon the severity of the breach and the number of breaches, the ACTISA appointed Disciplinary Committee and ACTIISA Committee may choose to start the disciplinary process at any of the three levels detailed above.

Where ACTISA receives information that an Athlete may have committed a breach of this Agreement, ACTISA will investigate the matter through the following process:

the disciplinary meetings may be held via any communication means deemed reasonable by the ACTISA;

(s) and shall not be modified or rescinded nor any terms stated by the Supplier in accepting or acknowledging this order shall be binding upon Company unless accepted in writing by the nominated Company  Representative.

it is registered and holds all requisite licences, permits etc, required by Law and that are necessary to properly provide the Goods and Services and that such registration or licences / permits will remain current for the period of this Contract.

that all work shall be performed in the best and workmanlike manner and acknowledges that the Company entered into this Contract relying on the particular skill, competence, experience and ability of the Supplier to provide the Goods and Services.

The Supplier has knowledge of all the applicable Laws, business practices and standards which must be followed in providing the Goods and Services and will comply with all applicable laws and standards.

in the case of Goods, the Goods will conform to its description in the Purchase Order Documents and any applicable specifications and shall be of good merchantable quality, free from defects in material and workmanship and fit for the purpose for which it is sold (if known to the Supplier) or for

The Company may terminate this order if Supplier: (i) fails to comply with any of the provisions hereof; (ii) fails to remedy breach within seven days of notice of breach by Company; (iii) is insolvent; or (iv)if Supplier becomes the subject of administration, liquidation, a proceeding for relief of debtors or

Without affecting its right to terminate this order under paragraph (a) hereof, Company may for its convenience terminate this order in whole or from time to time in part provided that the Company is paid reasonable compensation (calculated on the same basis as purchase order pricing) for work started but not completed.

shall supply all labour, tools, equipment and materials necessary to complete the work.

shall use its best endeavours not to impede or interfere with other work in progress on the Company's premises.

shall at its own expense obtain all requisite licences and permits and comply with all laws and regulations in connection with the provision of Goods and Services.

will: (i) pay all wages, superannuation and any other contributions or payments required by law to be paid by an employer in respect of persons supplied by the Supplier in the provision of the Goods and Services,

The law of Queensland shall apply to this Contract.

No variation to this Contract will be binding on the parties unless agreed in writing.

Each Party's representatives must attempt to resolve the dispute through discussions/ negotiations within ten (10) business days of receipt of the notice.

providing any necessary equipment, materials and information to Blurz; (b) providing all facilities, services and accessories reasonably required to enable Blurz to comply with its obligations; (c) providing Blurz, if requested, a suitably qualified or informed representative, agent or employee to accompany Blurz and to advise Blurz on project requirements, access, security procedures and any other matter within the Customer's knowledge or control which will assist Blurz in complying with its obligations.

request that all or any members of the Panel provide a quotation for the provision of the Services, notwithstanding that pre-agreed rates may form part of this Agreement;

Lessee has the form of business organization indicated, and is and will remain duly organized and existing in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction currently specified, and is duly qualified to do business wherever necessary to perform its obligations under the Lease, including each jurisdiction in which the Equipment and Financed Items are or will be located.

The Lease Documents (1) have been duly authorized by all necessary action consistent with Lessee's form of organization, (2) have been or will be executed by an individual that has been duly authorized to do so, (3) do not require the approval of, or giving notice to, any governmental authority; (4) do not contravene or constitute a default under any applicable law, Lessee's organizational documents, or any agreement, indenture, or other instrument to which Lessee is a party or by which it may be bound, and (5) constitute legal, valid and binding obligations of Lessee enforceable against Lessee, in accordance with the terms thereof.

There are no pending actions or proceedings to which Lessee is a party, and there are no other pending actions or proceedings of which Lessee has knowledge which, either individually or in the aggregate, would have a Material Adverse Effect.

The Equipment is personal property and when subjected to use by Lessee will not be or become fixtures under applicable law.

Lessee possesses or can become licensed under all patents, trademarks, or copyrights necessary for the operation of the Equipment.

any casualty to the Equipment, for not less than the "Fair Market Value" of the Equipment or such other amount as Lessor may agree with Lessee, and (ii) any commercial liability arising in connection with the Equipment, including both bodily injury and property damage, in the form and amount that is satisfactory to the Lessor.

the value or function of the Equipment would thereby be impaired, (b) such action would contravene any applicable law or regulation relating to the Equipment or any user thereof, or (c) such action would interfere with maintenance of the Equipment.

Lessor having received the following, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to Lessor: (1) evidence of compliance with the insurance provisions of Section 5.5; (2) real property waivers or collateral access agreements as may be required by Lessor; (3) a certificate of an appropriate officer of Lessee certifying: (A) resolutions duly authorizing the transactions contemplated in the applicable Lease Documents, and (B) the incumbency and signature of the officers of Lessee authorized to execute such documents; (4) all purchase documents pertaining to the Equipment (collectively, the "Supply Contract") and any purchase order assignments required by Lessor; and (4) such other documents, agreements, certificates and assurances as Lessor may reasonably require.

Lessor shall have no obligation whatsoever to Lessee or under any Supply Contract, (ii) Lessee shall indemnify Lessor against and hold Lessor harmless from any and all liability arising in any way in connection with any Supply Contract or Lessor's right, title and interest in the Equipment, and (iii) upon Lessor's receipt of evidence of payment by Lessee for Equipment that is the subject of any such Supply Contract, Lessor shall assign to Lessee, without warranty, its right, title and interest (if any) in and to the equipment and any Supply Contract relating thereto.

9.1 or 9.2, and as long as Lessee is not in default under the Lease, the Lease will be automatically extended for each unreturned item of Equipment unless (a) Lessee notifies Lessor in writing, ninety (90) days prior to the end of the Original Term or, thirty (30) days prior to the end of any Extended Term that Lessee does not want the automatic extension and shall promptly elect to purchase or retun the Equipment, or (b) the Equipment is returned to and received by Lessor within fourteen (14) days after the expiration of the Term.

Lessee fails to pay any Rent or other amount due under any Lease within five days after it becomes due and payable; (b) Lessee fails to perform any other term or condition to be performed by it under any Lease, and such failure continues for a period of 20 days after such breach; (c) any representation or warranty of Lessee made in any Lease Document proves to have been incorrect in any material respect at the time made, and if curable, such incorrectness continues un-remedied for a period of 20 days after written notice thereof by Lessor; (d) bankruptcy, receivership, insolvency, reorganization, dissolution, liquidation or other similar proceedings are instituted by or against Lessee, any guarantor of any Lease or any partner of a partnership Lessee or guarantor, or all or any part of such person's property, and, if such proceeding is brought against such person, it consents thereto or fails to cause the same to be discharged within 60 days after it is filed; (e) Lessee defaults under any other agreement with Lessor or Lessor's Parent, Subsidiary, or Affiliate (as defined but in relation to Lessor); (f) Lessee sells or transfers all or substantially all of its assets, or any substantial portion of its assets out of the ordinary course of business; (g) Lessee merges or consolidates with or into any person, other than mergers where the Lessee is the surviving entity; or (h) a Material Adverse Effect shall have occurred.

named below as guarantor(s) and if there is more than one, each of them separately and every two or more of them jointly (collectively "Guarantor") acknowledges that the Guarantor could become liable to pay us: under the guarantee in Section 12.2, under the indemnity in Section 12.3, costs and other expenses under Section12.4 and interest under Section 12.5, if that clause applies.

5.3 or 7 hereof, representations and warranties contained in a Lease Document, and all rights of Lessor hereunder with respect to a Lease, shall survive the cancellation of such Lease and the return of the Equipment.

