The Grantee will provide the following:
A tax invoice is necessary where the Grantee is registered for GST. Where the Grantee is NOT registered for GST, this Part does not apply. 
A tax invoice can be issued by the Grantee or DVA.
Depending on which invoice is to be issued for GST purposes, it shall include the following details: 


Tax invoices forwarded by the Grantee to DVA must be correctly addressed and shall include the:
words 'tax invoice' prominently stated;
date of issue;
name of the Grantee;
ABN of the Grantee;
full name of DVA;
address and ABN of DVA;
brief description of purpose of Grant; and
GST inclusive price.
OR


RCTIs forwarded by DVA to the Grantee must be correctly addressed and shall include the:
words 'recipient created tax invoice';
date of issue;
name of the Grantee;
ABN of the Grantee;
full name of DVA;
address and ABN of DVA;
brief description of purpose of Grant; and
GST inclusive price.

DVA agrees to issue a copy of the RCTI to the Grantee and must retain the original for a period of 5 years. 

If there are any adjustments, DVA must issue an adjustment note to the Grantee. 

All Grantee activities in relation to this Agreement shall be consistent with DVA's Service Charter and the Australian Public Service Values and APS Code of Conduct (see in particular the Public Service Act 1999, ss 10 and 13).

The Grantee must maintain full levels of insurance cover to properly protect its and DVA's interests for the Project.  The Grantee will also be expected to comply with all relevant insurance requirements, including conducting and improving relevant risk management practices and incident notification processes.

Specifically, the Grantee warrants that it has, and will maintain:

public risk/liability insurance for not less than $10,000,000 per claim covering liability owed to another person who suffers loss or damage by reason of the Grantee's activities under this Agreement;
professional indemnity type insurance for not less than $5,000,000 per claim covering acts or omissions of the Grantee in the exercise of its trade or profession that give rise to liability (eg, negligence); and
workers' compensation insurance as required by State/Territory law, sufficient for any place that its relevant Personnel are involved with this Agreement.

The Grantee agrees to provide copies of certificate/s of currency, including details of limits on cover to the Delegate upon request, including details of limits on cover.
The applicable law shall be the law of the State or Territory involved.

This Agreement begins on the Starting Date stated on the Signatures Page upon signature by the representatives for:
the Grantee, as described in Part B(a) [Grantee's legal identity];   and
DVA as described in Part C [How is DVA represented?] and any other entity, in particular, the Repatriation Commission. 

The Grantee agrees to:
use the Grant for the purpose of the Project and follow the timing stated in Part D [Project and Timing];
provide appropriate deliverables about the Project, including reports and evaluation stated in Part E [Deliverables];
meet standards and comply with any governmental requirements stated in Part J [Quality Standards]; and
to participate in a DVA evaluation, if required, after the completion of the Project.


DVA agrees to pay the Grant to the Grantee in the manner described in Part F [Payment of the Grant].  The Grantee agrees to place the Grant into a suitable account at a financial institution.
The Delegate may require the account referred to in clause 3.1 to be used solely for the Project.
DVA agrees to provide assistance described in Part H [Assistance].
Where the Grantee has unspent moneys belonging to the Grant, recovery of the moneys may be made.


The Grantee agrees to keep a complete record of expenditure of the Grant.
The Grantee agrees to include the relevant statements relating to the expenditure of the Grant in its Annual Report. 
After the completion of the Project, the Grantee agrees to send to the Delegate:
final financial statements relating to the expenditure of the Grant;
an independently qualified auditor's certificate relating to the expenditure of the Grant and whether the financial statements are true and fair; and 
a declaration signed by the Grantee to the effect that all terms of this Agreement have been complied with and the Project has been completed.
The Grantee agrees to pay the cost of the audit.

Where a goods and services tax (the GST) is collected from the Grantee for the Grant, then the Grantee agrees to do all things necessary to ensure that the DVA is entitled to a full input tax credit.
The Grantee agrees to issue a tax invoice to DVA within 28 days of the request of DVA in relation to the Grant unless it has been agreed between the parties by a Deed of Agreement that the DVA shall issue a Recipient Created Tax Invoice (RCTI).
A tax invoice must include the information as set out in Part G [Invoices for GST Purposes].
Where a RCTI is to be issued by DVA, each party must acknowledge to the other party that it is registered for GST purposes at the Starting Date of the Agreement.
the Grantee agrees to notify DVA if it ceases to be registered; and
DVA agrees to notify the Grantee if it ceases to be registered or if it ceases to satisfy the requirements of the relevant RCTI tax ruling.
A RCTI shall include the information as set out in Part G [Invoices for GST Purposes]
In the event that a RCTI is issued by DVA, on or after a date, where either party has failed to comply with any of the requirements of the relevant determination of the Commissioner for Taxation, that RCTI will not be treated as being a tax invoice. 
No tax invoice or RCTI is required where the Grantee is not registered for GST.


The Grantee agrees to:
nominate an individual authorised to receive notices and represent it; and
maintain good record keeping practices to assist with the contract management and accountability requirements generally.

Notices made for written communication will be:
signed by the Delegate and sent to the Grantee as stated in Part B(b) [Who represents  the Grantee?] (or as otherwise notified by the Grantee); or
sent to the Delegate as stated in Part C(b) [Who represents DVA?], or as otherwise notified in writing by the Delegate.

The Grantee agrees to:
ensure that Personnel stated in Part B (c) [Specified Personnel] are appropriately qualified and conduct the relevant Project in relation to the Grant under this Agreement; 
notify DVA promptly if Specified Personnel cannot, for any reason, meet their obligations; and
notify DVA promptly of any  proposed or actual change in the Specified Personnel.

The Grantee agrees to act in the best interests of DVA and do all things necessary to protect and preserve DVA's good name regarding any people the DVA deals with and the public generally.
The Grantee and its Personnel agree to provide prompt and reasonable access for the Delegate or Personnel (including "Accountability Personnel" as defined in clause 9.4), to any:
premises where the Project under the Grant are being undertaken or delivered, including for inspecting performance or outcomes; and
Material that relates to this Agreement, including as stated in Part L (Accountability and Risk Management).
If "Accountability Personnel" approach the Grantee directly, then the Grantee agrees to immediately seek directions from the Delegate about appropriate steps to take. For example, the Commonwealth may need to raise issues such as privacy, confidentiality, security, immunity from disclosure or the need for appropriate warnings.

Before resorting to external dispute resolution processes, the parties agree to attempt dispute settlement by negotiation, including with relevant senior Personnel.
If the parties do not resolve a dispute within 10 working days, or a period specified in Part K [Communications and Dispute Resolution], then the parties may:
preferably, adopt an alternative dispute resolution (ADR) process as specified in Part K [Communications and Dispute Resolution] or otherwise agreed in writing; or
if critical, start court  proceedings.

DVA Material ownership will remain vested at all times in DVA.
The ownership of the Project Material shall vest in the Grantee.
The Grantee agrees to provide DVA access to the Project Material as set out in Part M [Managing Assets and Project Material].
The Grantee agrees to:
ensure that DVA Material or Project Material is used, copied or disclosed to any other person only as authorised under this Agreement;
use DVA Material and Project Material according to any conditions notified by DVA; and
promptly deliver to the Delegate any DVA Material in its possession or control on the relevant End Date, or when any relevant part of the Project is completed or no longer required.
This clause 11 may be supplemented by procedures agreed, including specifically to manage assets in Part M [Managing Assets and Project Material].


Ownership of Intellectual Property in the Project Material vests in the Grantee.
The Grantee agrees to provide to DVA a licence regarding the Project  Material that is:
an "Existing Material Licence" defined in clause 12.3; and
for any relevant Intellectual Property right inherent in the Project Material.
The "Existing Material Licence" provided in clause 12.2 is permanent, non-exclusive, irrevocable, royalty-free and worldwide, including a right of sub-licence.
This clause 12 may be supplemented by information agreed to in Part N [Intellectual Property Ownership and Rights].


The Grantee agrees (with words in inverted commas in this clause adopting definitions from the Privacy Act 1988) to act as if it were a "record-keeper" regarding "personal information" and to comply with:
the "Information Privacy Principles" (regulating collection, solicitation, security, use and disclosure of personal information);
policies of DVA or the "Privacy Commissioner" relating to managing "personal information", including cooperating with reasonable requests from the "Privacy Commissioner";
the Delegate's directions about managing "personal information", in particular involving "Privacy Commissioner" recommendations about this Agreement;
DVA's prohibition against trans-border flows of "personal information" without prior approval by DVA; and
section 95C, and acknowledge section 95B, of the Privacy Act 1988.
The Grantee agrees not to:
use, develop or exploit "confidential information" (including not to solicit further business), other than as expressly required for this Agreement; or
disclose "confidential information" to anyone other than the Delegate, unless compelled by Law.

The Grantee agrees to ensure its Personnel understand this clause 13 and that they agree to give undertakings, or consent to personal checks, in a form DVA may require, to sustain this clause 13.

The Grantee agrees to indemnify DVA and its Personnel against any Loss reasonably incurred from any Claim associated with the delivery of the Project under this Agreement.
The Grantee's liability under this clause 14 will reduce proportionally to the extent that DVA was at fault in contributing to the Loss.
The Grantee agrees, in ensuring its own viability as well as to support its commitments under this Agreement, to:
obtain and maintain appropriate insurance, including as agreed            in Part L [Accountability and Risk Management]; and 
promptly prove, upon DVA's request, that its insurance is current. 

The Grantee agrees to warrant that, after diligent inquiry, no potential conflict of interest exists for it or its Personnel, including anything restricting the fair conduct or delivery of the Project or affecting DVA adversely.
The Grantee agrees not to, and agrees to ensure its Personnel do not, engage in any activity or obtain any interest creating a potential conflict of interest.
DVA may terminate this Agreement under clause 17 [Default] if it is satisfied that the Grantee has not complied with this clause 15.

The Grantee agrees not to represent itself, and agrees to ensure that its Personnel do not represent themselves, as:
being an employee or partner of DVA or its Personnel; or
able to bind or represent DVA or its Personnel (beyond any  express authority provided in Part D [Project and Timing]).
This Agreement does not:
make the Grantee an employee, partner or agent of DVA;
authorise the Grantee to bind or represent DVA; nor
entitle the Grantee to annual, sick or long service leave, or any other DVA employment entitlements.


Where a party has breached this Agreement in any way (default) it should take active measures to rectify the default as soon as possible, including discussing appropriate options with the other parties.

Where a party may reasonably rectify a default under this Agreement, the other parties may give it a written notice requiring rectification within:

If a party defaults in a way that cannot be rectified, then the other party may, by a notice in writing, terminate this Agreement:
completely; or
in part, where the default involves portions of the Project that are sufficiently severable.

DVA may, by notice in writing, terminate this Agreement, if the Grantee:
as an individual, becomes bankrupt (or enters into a scheme or arrangement with creditors), or as a corporation, becomes subject to a form of external administration under the Corporations Law; or
breaches any clauses or requirements providing DVA with a right to terminate under this clause 17.
If this Agreement is terminated, DVA shall:
not pay the Grantee any outstanding portion of the Grant; and
be entitled to recover from the Grantee:
any unspent portion of the Grant; or
an amount where DVA believes the Grantee has not complied with the purpose of the Grant.

The parties agree that mutual consideration exists under this Agreement to create a valid contract, and elements of the consideration include:
the payment to the Grantee; and 
the reporting obligations, licences and conduct of the Project in accordance with the Agreement by the Grantee, meeting DVA's policy outcomes and accountability requirements.
The law applicable to interpreting this Agreement is that of the State or Territory jurisdiction stated in Part O [Applicable Law].
