There shall be constituted a regional library corporation for the purposes of section
196 of the Act by the name of West Gippsland Regional Library Corporation to -
provide, subject to any service level agreements or any conditions attached to any State government library subsidies and grants to the Regional Library or the Councils, a quality, customer-focused regional library service for Council's municipal districts as determined by the Board;
make Local Laws relating to the Regional Library;
perform other functions which are conferred on the Regional Library under this
Agreement or Act, including defining overall policy objectives, developing strategic policy and a financial strategy, approving a Library Plan, developing an annual Budget; and preparing an Annual report, and 
to do all things necessary or expedient in accordance with this Agreement and 
the Act for the carrying out of its functions.

The Board of the Regional Library shall consist of the following members-

One councillor appointed by each Council

One member of Council staff appointed by each Council;

A Council may appoint a councillor to act as deputy in place of its appointed councilor member.

A Council may appoint a member of council staff to act as deputy in place of its appointed staff member.

A member and deputy shall hold office until the term of his/her appointment
expires, until removed or the person resigns or ceases to be a councillor or member of council staff, whichever occurs first.

A Council may remove from office its appointed member or deputy.

A Council must fill a vacancy in its members as soon as possible and notify the 
board in writing of the new member.

The office of a member automatically becomes vacant if he/she is absent for
three consecutive meetings without leave of the Board.

The Board shall hold an ordinary meeting at least once every three months.

If a special meeting is called, it must be called by the Chief Executive Officer on
the request of the Chairperson or any three members of the Board.

The Board shall elect a member to be the Chairperson of the Board and they shall hold office for twelve months, unless they go out of office earlier in accordance with clause 3.4 of this Agreement.

The Chairperson shall preside at a meeting of the Board.

In the absence of the Chairperson from a Board meeting, the remaining members of the Board may elect one of their number to preside at that meeting.

Notice of motion to recommend amendment of this Agreement and notice of 
motion for the adoption or amendment of Local Laws by the Board shall be given in writing to Councils at least one month before the meeting of the Board at which a motion is to be discussed.

Each Council agrees to indemnify the Regional Library in respect of any liability
incurred as a consequence of the operation of section 76 of the Act in relation to each of its appointed members.
The Board shall appoint a Chief Executive Officer of the Regional Library.

In addition to any responsibilities imposed on a Chief Executive Officer under
the Act, the Chief Executive Officer shall be responsible to the Board for the finances and administration of the Regional Library including the implementation of the Library Plan, the Financial strategy, preparation of the Annual Budget and Annual Report, delivery of the service and administrative support for the Board and any other duties specified.

Each Council agrees to the Regional Library using the assets set out in the 
Statement of Council Assets in Schedule 1.

The Chief Executive Officer shall maintain a register of the assets provided
for the use of the Regional Library by Councils. This register must indicate which Council owns each asset.

The Chief Executive Officer shall maintain a register of the assets owned by the
Regional Library.

A Council must, unless otherwise agreed by Councils, give twelve months 
notice in writing to the Chief Executive Officer of its intention to withdraw assets from the use of the Regional Library.

The Regional Library shall, unless otherwise agreed by Councils, be 
responsible for the maintenance, repair, replacement and operating costs of assets owned by the Regional Library.

Each Council shall, unless otherwise agreed by Councils, be responsible for
the maintenance, repair, replacement and operating costs of assets owned by it but provided for the use of the Regional Library.
The Regional Library shall, unless otherwise agreed by Councils and subject to

The Chief Executive Officer shall by 30 June each year provide each Council 
with a copy of the Regional Library's Library Plan prepared in accordance with section 197D of the Act.

The Chief Executive Officer shall by 30 June each year prepare and provide
each Council with a proposed Strategic Resource Plan for the financial year commencing 1 July.

The Strategic Resource Plan shall include a program for the delivery of services
by the Regional Library which identifies the nature and extent of proposed services and an estimate of the costs of the provision of those services.

The Regional Library must adopt a Library Plan and a Strategic Resource Plan
by the date specified in the Act. 

The Chief Executive Officer shall by June 1 each year provide each Council
with a copy of the Regional Library's proposed annual Budget prepared in accordance with section 127 of the Act.

The proposed annual Budget shall include -

the amount of funds currently held by the Regional Library

the amount of each Council's proposed financial contribution to the 
Regional Library for the financial year commencing 1 July; and

the amount of funds to be received from any other source by the 
Regional Library in the financial year commencing 1 July.

The amount to be contributed to the Regional Library by each Council during
each financial year shall be the sum of -

the amount specified in the Regional Library's adopted annual Budget;

all State Government library subsidies and grants received by the 
Council for library services; and

funds received by the Council from any other source for library services.

The Council must agree on a funding formula for the purpose of making annual 
financial contributions to the Regional Library under Clause 9.1 (a).

Each Council's financial contribution to the Regional Library shall be paid in 
quarterly installments on the first day of July, October, January and April each year.

The first installment shall be the same amount paid by the Council in the 
previous quarter and the second installment shall include any adjustment to ensure the two installments together equal half the amount paid by that Council for that financial year.

Al other Council contributions under clause 9.1 shall be paid within one month
of receipt of the monies by the Council.

In addition to the contributions payable under this clause, a Council shall be 
responsible for the Regional Library's costs in providing any additional service
or resources requested by the Council and such costs are to be paid within 30 days of the Council receiving an invoice from the Regional Library.

Interest shall be paid on any amount payable under clause 9 which is not received by the Chief Executive Officer within 14 days of the due date at the rate fixed by the Governor in Council for the purposes of section 172 of the Act and calculated monthly from the date the amount became due until it is received by the Chief Executive Officer.

The Chief Executive Officer shall, within three months of the end of each 
financial year, provide each Council with a copy of the Regional Library's Annual report prepared in accordance with section 131 of the Act.

The books of accounts and all other financial records of the Regional Library 
shall be available for inspection at all reasonable times by any councillor, or, person authorised by a Council, or, by any person authorised by the Secretary of the Department responsible for administering State Government library subsidies and grants from which the Regional Library or Councils receive funds.

A council which is not a party to this Agreement may, by supplementary 
agreement with the Councils, be admitted as a party to this Agreement and subject to the provisions of the supplementary agreement, shall have the same rights, duties and obligations of the Councils under this Agreement.

A Council may withdraw from this Agreement having given not less than 
twelve months notice in writing to the Chief Executive Officer of its intention to do so.

A Council which has given notice under clause 11.2 must, unless otherwise
agreed by the Councils, withdraw from this Agreement on 30 June in any year.

A Council, which withdraws from this Agreement, shall be entitled to a portion
of the net assets of the Regional Library as at the date of its withdrawal from the Agreement, less an amount which represents the full costs to the Regional Library of the withdrawal.

The portion of net assets to which a Council is entitled under clause 11.4 -
shall be calculated according to the value of the assets as disclosed by 
the relevant audited financial statements;
shall be in the same proportion as its financial contribution to the 
Regional Library bears to all member Councils' financial contributions to the Regional Library over the duration of this Agreement;
may be taken in such combination of property and cash as agreed 
between the Council and the Board, and if it is agreed that a Council is entitled to library materials, the cost of removing them shall be paid for by the Council.

A Council, which withdraws from this Agreement, shall be liable for a portion of 
the liabilities, including contingent liabilities, of the Regional Library as at the date of its withdrawal from the Agreement.

The portion of the liabilities and contingent liabilities to which a Council is liable 
under clause 11.6 -

shall be calculated according to the liabilities and contingent liabilities
as disclosed by the relevant audited financial statements and reports, and any other notes attached to them; and

shall be in the same proportion as its financial contribution to the 
Regional Library bears to all the member Councils' financial contributions to the Regional Library over the duration of this Agreement and

where contracts for goods and services are affected, shall be the full cost
of any additional payments for variations to contractual arrangements resulting from the withdrawal.

Subject to section 197G of the Act, the Regional Library may be dissolved by 
Agreement of at least two thirds (or such other depending on the number of parties to the Agreement) of the parties to this Agreement including those admitted as a party by supplementary agreement.

If the Regional Library is dissolved under this clause -
each Council shall be entitled to a portion of the Regional Library's
assets in the same proportion as its financial contribution to the Regional Library bears to all the member Councils' financial contributions to the Regional Library over the duration of this Agreement; and
each Council shall be liable for a portion of the liabilities and contingent 
liabilities of the Regional Library in the same proportion as its financial contribution to the Regional Library bears to all the member Councils' financial contributions to the Regional Library over the duration of this Agreement.


If there is any dispute or difference between a Council and the Regional Library
or between any of the Councils which arises out of this Agreement or concerns the Regional Library, the matter shall be determined as a dispute under the Commercial Arbitration Act 1984 and the arbitrator's decision shall be final and binding on the parties to the dispute.

The parties to the arbitration shall -
be responsible for their own arbitration costs; and
unless otherwise determined by the arbitrator, share the arbitrator's costs 
equally.

