Subject to this Agreement, each party shall treat the Information disclosed to him as private and confidential, and shall take all reasonable steps to ensure that the information is made known only to any other person to whom the other party has agreed in writing that the Information may be disclosed and whose duties and functions require a knowledge of or access to the Information.

Each party shall, to the extent permitted by law, require          every person to whom he intends to disclose the information to  give a written undertaking to keep the Information confidential 
Each party shall not discuss, communicate, copy, transcribe or reproduce by any means whatsoever any of the Information that may be provided by the other party without obtaining the prior written consent of that other party.
Without the prior consent in writing of a party, the other party not use the information in whole or in part for any purpose other than in considering the Transactions.
Each party shall not use, or suffer to be used, the Information in a manner detrimental to the interests of the other party.
Either party covenants with the other party and agrees that he shall report immediately to the other party if he should learn of any use or disclosure of the information which is without the consent of that other party, or is unlawful or is in breach of this Agreement.

Either party shall return all materials to the other party whenever he is required by the requesting party to do so.
After the return of all materials the party, shall not make any further use of the Information.
Either party shall return all materials to the other party in any event when he has ceased participating in the Transactions.

Property in the Information shall not pass to the other party by virtue of the provisions of this Agreement.


The restrictions in this Agreement upon either party shall not apply in respect of -                               
knowledge of the Information that is available to the  general public at the time of its receipt by the   other party
knowledge of the Information which either party shall have lawfully obtained from any third party, involving no fault or omission on the part of that party; or
knowledge of the Information that at the date of the Agreement is known to that party
PROVIDED ALWAYS that for each party to be entitled to the benefit of any of the foregoing exclusions, the onus of clearly establishing that the conduct of that party (whether by act or omission) is within that exclusion shall be upon that party at all times.

Each party shall release and hold the other party and its directors harmless from: -
any claim as to the lack of completeness or accuracy    of the Information; and
all responsibility and liability for conclusions derived from the Information.

All notices required under this Agreement shall be given in writing and served on the relevant party at the address set out on the first page of this Agreement or any other address as may be advised in writing from time to time.
A notice sent by mail shall be sent by certified mail and shall be deemed to have been received:
sent from within Australia, then on the day following the expiry of 2 clear days from the date shown on the certified mail posting receipt card; and
if sent from outside Australia, then on the day following the expiry of 10 clear days from the date shown on the certified mail posting receipt card.
A notice delivered by e-mail shall be deemed to arrive on the day of delivery if delivered during a business day and if not delivered during a business day then shall be deemed to arrive the next following business day.
A notice sent by facsimile or e-mail shall be deemed to have been received when the sender's machine confirms that the transmission has been successful and where a facsimile or e-mail is sent it must be immediately followed by a hard copy by post or hand delivery, noting the date time that the facsimile or email was sent.
Any communication of a notice made by a solicitor of one party shall be deemed to have been made with the authority of that party.


The relationship between the Parties shall be limited to the performance of the objects provided for in this Agreement.
Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed as bringing into existence any partnership or agency between the Parties.

The failure, delay or omission by either party to exercise a power or right conferred on that party by this Agreement shall not operate as a waiver of that power or right.
Any single exercise of a power or right will not preclude another exercise of that power or right or the exercise of another power or right under this Agreement.
Any waiver of a provision of this Agreement or consent to a departure by a Party from a provision of this Agreement must be in writing and signed by the Party granting the waiver to the other Party.

This Agreement shall not be varied unless in writing and executed by the Parties.

If any provision in this Agreement is found to be unlawful, invalid, unenforceable or in conflict with any rule of law, statute, ordinance or regulation, the validity and enforceability of the remaining provisions of this Agreement shall remain in force as if that provision had not been included.

This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement between the Parties and supersedes all prior negotiations, representations, proposals, undertakings and agreements, whether written or oral, relating to the subject matter of this Agreement.

This Agreement shall be construed and take effect in accordance with the relevant law for the time being applicable in the State of New South Wales and the Parties hereby submit themselves to the jurisdiction of the relevant Courts of the State of New South Wales.




