HREC will review Researcher's application for Approval after payment of the Fee of $2000 (excluding GST).
The Approval will be forwarded to the Researcher after the review and finalisation process, as described in the Review of ethics applications from clients not affiliated with UNSW, is complete.
The Researcher will carry out the Project in accordance with the Approval.

The Researcher will notify HREC of any matter or circumstance of which the Researcher is aware which:
a breach of or failure to comply with the Approval
changes in any material way the Project or the conduct of the Project (including discontinuance of the Project before the expected date of completion and the reasons for it)
may affect continued ethical acceptability of the Project 
is a material change to the information provided to HREC by the Researcher or a research sponsor about the Project either before or after the date of this Agreement

The Researcher acknowledges and agrees that HREC has an obligation under the National Statement to ensure that the conduct of research approved by HREC is monitored and will comply with all requirements of HREC with respect to monitoring of the Project, including but not limited to: production of documents, information and data and access to premises, equipment and personnel and participants in the Project. The Researcher further acknowledges and agrees that HREC may conduct monitoring by way of random audit. 
If requested, the Researcher will provide HREC with a report on matters including, but not limited to:
progress to date or outcome of completed research
maintenance and security of records
compliance with the Approval (including any conditions of Approval)
discontinuance of the Project for any reason
compliance with this Agreement and any requirements of the Researcher made by HREC under this Agreement
The Researcher is responsible for any costs of the Researcher or any third party of complying with this clause 2.
The Researcher will comply with any requirement made by HREC under this clause 2 within the time required by HREC. HREC will, in its discretion normally provide a reasonable time within which the Researcher is to comply with this clause 2, but may, when it considers it appropriate for the purposes of monitoring, require immediate compliance with its requirements and the Researcher will comply on that basis. 

HREC may, at any time withdraw or suspend the Approval upon being satisfied:
that the Project is not being or cannot be conducted in accordance with the Approval
the Researcher is in breach of this Agreement
On receiving notice of a withdrawal or suspension of Approval, the Researcher must immediately discontinue the conduct of Project and take all necessary steps to do this including taking all steps and actions required by HREC as a consequence of the withdrawal or suspension.
Where HREC makes a decision to withdraw or suspend the Approval in the pursuant to clause 3.1, HREC may require the Researcher to take steps to remedy or make good any harm or foreseeable harm arising from the circumstances giving rise to the withdrawal or suspension of Approval and the Researcher will take those steps as required by HREC and, unless otherwise specified by HREC, as soon as practicable. 
HREC may, at any time by notice to the Researcher amend or change the Approval where satisfied that such change or amendment is required in order for the Approval to be or remain in accordance with the terms and intention of the National Statement.

The Researcher will promptly refer all complaints or concerns about the conduct of the Project to HREC to be dealt with in accordance with the usual procedure of HREC.
The Researcher may make a complaint about consideration of the Approval (including monitoring, amendment, withdrawal and suspension of an Approval) to the UNSW Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Research) which will be dealt with in accordance with the usual procedure of UNSW.
The Researcher acknowledges and agrees that the usual complaint procedures of HREC and their outcome apply to and are binding on the Researcher in relation to the Project and the Approval. 


The Researcher warrants that:
all information provided to HREC in relation to the Project and the Approval whether provided before or after the date of this Agreement is true, correct and complete to the best of Researcher's knowledge and belief
the Researcher is familiar with the National Statement and all of its requirements and agrees to conduct the Project in accordance with the National Statement
it has disclosed to HREC the amount and sources or potential sources of funding for the Project and has declared any relevant affiliation or financial interest. 
 
The Researcher is responsible for:
all costs of the Researcher and any third party incurred by reason of the Researcher complying with this Agreement and the Approval
the conduct and outcomes of the Project 
UNSW is responsible for:
the conduct of HREC
the approval and monitoring of the Project in accordance with the National Statement
The parties acknowledge and agree that nothing in this Agreement or the Approval makes either party responsible for any act or omission of the other. Neither party may use the name or logo of the other party except with the express consent in writing of that party. 

In the event of any inconsistency between this Agreement and the Approval, the terms of the Approval take priority. 
UNSW has no right, liability or obligation in relation to the Project other than as set out in this Agreement. 
 
The Researcher indemnifies UNSW for any breach by the Researcher, its servants or agents of the Approval and for any loss, damage, legal costs or liability whatsoever and howsoever arising out of or in relation to the conduct of the research (including negligence). The liability of the Researcher to UNSW under this clause 7.2 shall be reduced to the extent that UNSW has contributed to the loss, damage or liability. 
