the Subscriber will pay the Fees in respect of its subscription to Escape Today's Services, in accordance with this Agreement; 
Escape Today will supply the Escape Today Services via its Online Portal;
the Subscriber will provide its Employees with access to the Escape Today Online Portal, in accordance with clause 2.4 of this Agreement. 
the Customer will be able to access the web pages advertising the Provider's Services.
The Term of this Agreement is the period specified in item 6 of Schedule 1 and unless renewed by the Parties in writing, this Agreement will end at the end of the Term;
This Agreement may be renewed for a further term upon such terms and conditions as agreed between the parties.
By signing this Agreement, Escape Today, as part of the Subscriber's Subscription, agrees to provide:
the Online Portal consisting of personalised:
employer portal; and
customer portal;
upon request by the Subscriber, arrangements for booking a Provider's Service to be provided to a Customer which will be provided subject to the Provider's usual terms and conditions and the special conditions set out in Schedule 2;
Additional Services, available upon request by the Subscriber and agreement by Escape Today;
a weekly newsletter; and
an online reporting service.

By signing this Agreement, the Subscriber agrees:
that it will pay the Subscription fees as stated in item 7 of Schedule 1; 
that it will notify Escape Today of any special conditions or requirements that they require their Escape Today Service to include;
will comply with clause 6.2.
The Provider will pay to Escape Today the fees as agreed in item 7 of Schedule 1.

The Parties agree that the Subscriber will pay Escape Today the monthly Subscription Fee as listed in item 7 of Schedule 1 within the agreed time, upon receipt of a Tax Invoice issued in accordance with clause 4.4.

All fees and payments will be paid by the method agreed in item 7 of Schedule 1.

Escape Today reserves the right to review the fees in line with the growth of the business, and will notify the Provider of any changes as necessary (item 8 of Schedule 1).
Except as otherwise provided by this clause, all consideration payable under this Agreement in relation to any supply is exclusive of GST.
Recipient must pay
If GST is payable in respect of any supply made by a supplier under this Agreement, subject to clause 4.4 the recipient will pay to the supplier an amount equal to the GST payable on the supply at the same time and in the same manner as the consideration for the supply is to be provided under this Agreement.

Escape Today will issue the Supplier with an electronic Tax Invoice at the end of each month;
the Tax Invoice will state the fees payable by the Supplier, and will outline the type of fee and total amount due; 
The Tax Invoice amount will be paid within 30 days of the end of the following month; and
The Tax Invoice will be a valid tax invoice for the purposes of the GST Act.

Responsibility of Subscriber
Escape Today is not the provider of a Provider's Service and cannot and does not accept any responsibility in relation to this.
The Subscriber is responsible for obtaining and maintaining all insurances to adequately cover the Subscriber and any Customers including in regards to their participation in any activity, service or otherwise in which they engage provided by a Provider.  Escape Today cannot and the Subscriber further understands that Escape Today will not take responsibility for attaining such insurance policies.
The Subscriber indemnifies and holds harmless Escape Today from any and all actions, suits and claims of any nature which may be made by any person (including any officer, employee or agent of the Subscriber) against Escape Today in respect of the provision of a Provider's Service by a Provider or any matter arising out of the provision of the Provider's Services.

The Subscriber warrants:
that it will not use the Escape Today Online Portal in any un-authorised way, or re-produce, distribute of give access to any third party not provided for in this agreement;
that it will not simultaneously subscribe to a parallel system of Service Providers which replicate the service offered by Escape Today with any other third party;
that it will not engage in any conduct which amounts to a contravention of the Trade Practices Act 1974 or any State Fair Trading Act;
that the content of any material provided by the Subscriber, or any of its Employees, to Escape Today in respect of the Escape Today's Services including but not limited to the online discussion forum, is not likely to mislead or deceive, is not defamatory, offensive, obscene or otherwise illegal.

Nothing in this document is to be read as excluding, restricting or modifying the application of any legislation which by law cannot be excluded, restricted or modified.
Any representation, warranty, condition or undertaking which (but for this clause) would be implied in this document by law, is excluded to the fullest extent permitted by law.
Escape Today is not liable to the Supplier for any claim arising under this document in contract, tort, statute or otherwise, as a result of a Force Majeure.
The liability of Escape Today for breach of a condition or warranty implied by the Trade Practices Act 1974 (other than under Section 69), namely section 68A Trade Practices Act 1974, in relation to the supply of goods or services not of a kind ordinarily acquired for personal domestic or household use or consumption, is, at the option of Escape Today, limited to:
in the case of goods - the replacement of the goods, the supply of equivalent goods, the payment of the cost of replacing the goods or the payment of the cost of acquiring equivalent goods;  or
in the case of services - the supplying of the services again or the payment of the cost of having the services supplied again.
In the event that the liability arises through the provision of a recreational services as provided for by section 68B Trade Practices Act 1974, Escape Today's liability excludes liability for death or personal injury in accordance with the section.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this document and to the fullest extent permitted by law, Escape Today will not be liable to the Provider for consequential, indirect or special losses or damages of any kind (including, without limitation, loss of profit, loss or corruption of data, business interruption or indirect costs) suffered by the Provider as a result of any act or omission whatsoever of Escape Today, its employees, agents or sub-contractors.

Escape Today may terminate this Agreement immediately without compensation if:
the Subscriber is placed into administration; or
there is any act of serious misconduct or any other serious or persistent breach of any of the terms of this Agreement.
If the Subscriber defaults in the performance of any obligation under this Agreement, Escape Today may give notice to the Subscriber specifying the default and requiring the Subscriber to:
rectify the default; and
show cause why Escape Today should not exercise the powers contained in this clause.
If, within seven days after the service of the notice specifying the default, the Subscriber fails to rectify the default or fails to show, to the satisfaction of Escape Today, why it should not exercise its powers, Escape Today may terminate this Agreement.  Nothing in this clause limits the power of Escape Today to terminate the Agreement immediately under clause 8.1.

Either party may terminate this Agreement, without being required to give a reason, by the giving of two weeks written notice to the other party.

The Subscriber must not, whether during or after the term of this Agreement make any improper use of:
any information or trade secrets of Escape Today;
the position of Escape Today on any confidential matter; or
any other information which may be detrimental to the interests of Escape Today, or its Customers, or of any other person who has provided it to Escape Today on a confidential basis including but not limited to, any Customer list, unless the Subscriber is required to disclose the information by law.  The Subscriber must use its best endeavours to prevent the improper publication or disclosure of any such information by anyone else; and 
the Subscriber is responsible for ensuring its employees and any other relevant person complies with this clause. 

The termination or expiry of this Agreement for whatever reason does not affect or derogate from the obligations of the Provider under this clause, which obligations the Contractor enters on behalf of itself and its associates, whether they are its employees or not.

The Subscriber agrees that the Intellectual Property Rights of any sort in any documents or web pages produced in the course of the Escape Today Services, are owned solely by Escape Today.
With the effect from the commencement of this Agreement, Escape Today grants the Subscriber a non-exclusive non-transferable licence for the Term to use the Escape Today Intellectual Property Rights. 

The Subscriber acknowledges and agrees that it gains no ownership rights or interest in any of the Escape Today Intellectual Property Rights under this Agreement.
The Subscriber acknowledges and agrees that:
all Escape Today Intellectual Property Rights or any improvements to Escape Today Intellectual Property Rights made by the Subscriber or its employees in the course of this Agreement vest in Escape Today immediately upon creation; and 
the Subscriber will do all things necessary, including executing and procuring that its employees execute all documents requested by Escape Today, to vest the legal title in such Intellectual Property Rights in Escape Today.

A notice or other communication required or permitted, under this document, to be served on a person must be in writing and may be served:
personally on the person;
by leaving it at the person's current address for service;
by posting it by prepaid post addressed to that person at the person's current address for service; 
by facsimile to the person's current number for service; or
by email to the person's current email address for service.

Any party may change the address or facsimile number for service by giving notice to the other parties.
If the person to be served is a company, the notice or other communication may be served on it at the company's registered office.
A notice or other communication is deemed served:
if served personally or left at the person's address, upon service;
if posted within Australia to an Australian address, two Business Days after posting and in any other case, seven Business Days after posting;
if served by facsimile, at the time indicated on the transmission report produced by the sender's facsimile machine indicating that the facsimile was sent in its entirety to the addressee's facsimile;
if served by email, subject to clause 11.3.5, at the time the email containing the notice left the sender's email system, unless the sender receives notification that the email containing the notice was not received by the recipient;
if received after 6.00pm in the place of receipt or on a day which is not a Business Day, at 9.00am on the next Business Day.
This document may only be varied or replaced by a document duly executed by the parties.
Each party must promptly execute and deliver all documents and take all other action necessary or desirable to effect, perfect or complete the transactions contemplated by this document.
Each party must pay its own legal costs and expenses in relation to the negotiation, preparation and execution of this document and other documents referred to in it, unless expressly stated otherwise.
A single or partial exercise or waiver of a right relating to this document does not prevent any other exercise of that right or the exercise of any other right.
No party will be liable for any loss or expenses incurred by another party caused or contributed to by the waiver, exercise, attempted exercise, failure to exercise or delay in the exercise of a right.
It is agreed that the Provider supplies the Provider's Service to the Subscriber or Customer or both on the Provider's usual terms and conditions agreed for the supply.  In the event and to the extent of any inconsistency between the Provider's usual terms and conditions and the following special conditions, these special conditions are to prevail. 

The Parties expressly acknowledge and agree that:
Escape Today is not the provider of any of the Services provided or to be provided by the Provider, and will not at any time be construed as the employer of the Provider or of any sub-provider engaged by the Provider;
this Agreement is deemed to be read in conjunction with all other related Agreements between the Employer and Escape Today and the Provider and Escape Today; and 
Escape Today is expressly excluded from any liability considered by this Agreement.

In the event that the Subscriber pays directly for the Provider's Services:
the Provider will issue an invoice to the Subscriber in accordance with clause 4.4;
the Subscriber will pay the Activity Fee to the Provider in accordance with clause 4.4; and 
The Provider will account to Escape Today for all fees due under the Agreement as between the parties
In the event that the Subscriber purchases a Reward from Escape Today;
the Customer will redeem the price of the Reward against their chosen Provider activity from the Provider;
The Provider will invoice Escape Today in accordance with clause 4.4;
Escape Today will deduct the commission charge owing for their facilitation of the transaction, and pay the Provider the outstanding amount. 
In the event that the Customer pays, the Customer may either:
pay the Provider directly for the activity, and receive personally an invoice in accordance with clause 4.4; or 
Purchase a reward from Escape Today and redeem it against their chosen activity of the Service Provider in return for payment, the Provider will provide the Provider's Service to the Customer, 
and the Provider will pay the relevant fees to Escape Today.
Nothing in this document is to be read as excluding, restricting or modifying the application of any legislation which by law cannot be excluded, restricted or modified.

Any representation, warranty, condition or undertaking which (but for this clause) would be implied in this document by law, is excluded to the fullest extent permitted by law.
Parties are not liable between themselves and each other for any claim arising under this document in contract, tort, statute or otherwise, as a result of a Force Majeure.
Without limitation to any other clause of this Agreement, the liability of Escape Today to each other Party is limited to the amount paid by the Party (or, in the case of the Customer, the amount paid to the Subscriber), to Escape Today in fees during the 6 months prior to the date the liability arises.
Escape Today will not be in any way responsible to the Subscriber or Customer for the Provider's Service which may arise under any Agreement between the Provider, Employee and/or Employer respectively.
The Subscriber jointly and severally indemnify and hold harmless Escape Today for all claims (arising under contract, tort, statute or otherwise), which may be made against Escape Today or arise as a consequence of or in connection with the supply of the Provider's Services by a Customer or any person claiming as a result of personal injury to or death of the Customer.
The liability of the Provider for breach of a condition or warranty implied by the Trade Practices Act 1974 (other than under Section 69), namely section 68A Trade Practices Act 1974, in relation to the supply of goods or services not of a kind ordinarily acquired for personal domestic or household use or consumption, is, at the option of the Provider, limited to:
in the case of goods - the replacement of the goods, the supply of equivalent goods, the payment of the cost of replacing the goods or the payment of the cost of acquiring equivalent goods;  or
in the case of services - the supplying of the services again or the payment of the cost of having the services supplied again.
In the event that the liability arises under section 74 of the Trade Practices Act 1974 (TPA) through the provision of a recreational service as provided for by section 68B TPA, the Provider's liability excludes liability for death or personal injury.
In the event that the liability arises under Part 2A of the Fair Trading Act 1999 (Vic) (FTA) through the provision of recreational services under section 32N of the FTA, Escape Today's liability excludes liability for death or personal injury.
Consequential Losses
Notwithstanding any other provision of this document and to the fullest extent permitted by law, none of the Parties under this Agreement will be liable to another Party under this Agreement for consequential, indirect or special losses or damages of any kind (including, without limitation, loss of profit, loss or corruption of data, business interruption or indirect costs) suffered by a party to this Agreement as a result of any act or omission whatsoever of a Party, its employees, agents or sub-contractors.
