The Service Provider agrees to carry out the project specified in Item 1 of the Schedule (hereinafter referred to as "the Work") for NSW DET.

The Designated Officers of NSW DET and the Service Provider for the purpose of liaison are specified in Item 2 of the Schedule.

The Service Provider warrants that the Work shall be carried out in a conscientious, expeditious and workmanlike manner.

The Service Provider warrants it is aware of NSW DET's policies on Equal Employment Opportunity and Anti-Discrimination and will not act contrary to those policies while performing this Agreement.

The Service Provider agrees to complete the Work in the manner and to the standard specified in Item1 of the Schedule.

The Service Provider also agrees that all the terms of this Agreement are set out in this document.

The Service Provider agrees to make changes to the Work as required by the Designated Officer in the event that the Designated Officer reasonably determines that the Work has not been completed as set out in Item 1.

The Service Provider agrees to undertake the Work during the period specified in Item 3 of the Schedule

This Agreement shall neither be assigned nor sub-contracted by the Service Provider to any other party.

It is the express intention of the parties that nothing contained herein shall constitute the relationships of partnership, agency or employment between the parties.

This Agreement is for the provision by the Service Provider of the Work as a product or deliverable to NSW DET.

The Service Provider represents and warrants to NSW DET that the circumstances involving the provisions of the Work under the Agreement do not and will not attract the operation of the Superannuation Guarantee (Administration) Act 1992.

The Service Provider warrants to NSW DET that in undertaking the Work there shall be no infringement of any copyright vested in any other party.

Ownership of copyright of all materials produced pursuant to or arising from the performance of this Agreement shall vest solely in the Crown in the right of the State of New South Wales.

The Service Provider will not at any time either during the continuance or after the termination of the Work for any reason divulge any of the affairs (which but for a breach of this Agreement, are not within public knowledge) or secrets of NSW DET to any company, person, or persons without the previous written consent of NSW DET, nor use or attempt to use any information acquired by the Service Provider in the course of the Work in any manner which might injure or cause loss to NSW DET.

'Moral Rights' means rights of integrity of authorship, rights of attribution of authorship, rights not to have authorship falsely attributed, and rights of a similar nature confirmed by statute, that exist, or may come to exist anywhere in the world.

In performing the Work the Service Provider must not infringe or allow NSW DET to infringe the copyright or other intellectual property rights or Moral Rights of any person.

The Service Provider:
agrees that all copyright Moral Rights and other intellectual property rights in respect of material created in the performance of the Work vest, on creation, in the Crown in Right of NSW;
assigns, and shall ensure that any relevant third party assigns, to the Crown all copyright Moral Rights and other intellectual property rights in respect of material introduced in performing the Work; and
warrants that all the rights assigned to or vested in NSW DET under this Agreement do not and will not infringe the copyright Moral Rights or other intellectual property rights of any third party.

To the extent that NSW DET has expressly agreed in writing that the Service Provider may retain copyright, Moral Rights or other intellectual property rights which would otherwise be assigned or vest in accordance with this clause, 

the Contractor grants NSW DET an irrevocable and unrestricted licence to use those rights from the date of their creation for any purpose NSW DET sees fit, including the right to change, copy,  update, exhibit, sell, license and reproduce relevant material.

Consents (or where required, undertakes to obtain the consent of effected persons) for the benefit of NSW DET, its licensees, successors in title and anyone authorised by any of them to do acts or omissions (including acts or omissions which would otherwise infringe Moral Rights) in respect of material produced in performing the Work.

To the fullest extent permitted by law, unconditionally and irrevocably consents to such of the following acts or omissions (whether occurring before or after this Agreement) as would otherwise infringe the Moral Rights of the Service Provider in the material produced in performing the Work:-

all acts or omissions:

comprised in the copyright in the material produced in performing the Work;

otherwise licensed or permitted under this Agreement or the law to be done by NSW DET, its employees, contractors or licensees;

necessary to be done to allow NSW DET, its employees, contractors or licensees to enjoy the benefit of the material produced in performing the Work as envisaged by this Agreement.


The total amount for the performance of the Work is the sum specified in Item 4 of the Schedule and shall be paid in the manner specified in Item 5 of the Schedule.

The Service Provider agrees to supply such information and complete such forms as are necessary to permit NSW DET to comply with any statutory requirements arising from the relationship of the parties pursuant to this Agreement.

No additional sum shall be paid to the Service Provider in respect of any cost incurred in performing the Work or in respect of the premises and materials necessary for the performance of this Agreement, both of which are to be provided by the Service Provider.

Any payment for work done shall be made only after the Designated Officer is:
satisfied that the Work complies with this Agreement, and authorises such payment. 

At the time of providing any invoice for payment relating to the provision of Work the Service Provider must produce evidence to the reasonable satisfaction of NSW DET that the circumstances surrounding the provision of the Work do not attract the operation of the Superannuation Guarantee (Administration) Act 1992.

If NSW DET is not so satisfied NSW DET shall withhold from payments otherwise due to the Service Provider such sum as may be necessary for NSW DET to comply with its obligations under the Superannuation Guarantee (Administration) Act 1992 and may pay monies so withheld as required by law.

Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement:

If a GST applies to any supply made by either party or in connection with this Agreement, the consideration provided or to be provided for that supply will be increased by an amount equal to the GST liability properly incurred by the party making the supply.

If the imposition of a GST or any subsequent change in the GST law is accompanied by or undertaken in connection with the abolition of or reduction in existing taxes, duties or statutory charges (in this clause "taxes"), the consideration payable by the recipient of the supply made under this Agreement will be reduced directly or indirectly as a consequence of the abolition of or reduction in taxes.

The parties agree to meet prior to the imposition of a GST in order to determine the variation of any consideration in accordance with the above.

Each party warrants that at the time any supply is made under this Agreement on which GST is imposed, the party is or will be registered under GST law. If the other party requests written evidence of registration, the party claiming to be registered will promptly produce evidence satisfactory to the party seeking such evidence.

Any invoice rendered by a party to this Agreement in connection with supply under this Agreement which seeks to recover an amount of GST payable by that party must conform to the requirements for a tax invoice (as that term is defined in GST law). If requested to do so by the recipient of the supply, the supplier must provide a tax invoice within 14 days.

The Service Provider shall be responsible for and shall indemnify and keep indemnified, NSW DET against liability for all loss, damage or injury (including injury arising in the course of performance of the Work) to persons or property caused by the Service Provider and the amount of all claims, damages, costs and expenses which may be paid, suffered or incurred by NSW DET in respect of any such loss, damage or injury shall be made good at the Service Provider's expense and may (in the first instance) be deducted from any moneys due or becoming due to the Service Provider with any balance being sued for as a debt.

The Service Provider shall effect all insurances required by law including all necessary insurance under the provision of any relevant workers compensation legislation and public liability and shall, if so required by NSW DET, produce evidence of such insurance and their currency.

The Service Provider warrants that there has been disclosed to the Designated Officer any commercial interest held by the Service Provider which might affect the outcome, the performance or services, or the marketing of the Work under this Agreement.

NSW DET may terminate this Agreement without prior notice should the Service Provider be guilty of any breach of this Agreement, or should the Service Provider refuse to comply with any reasonable instructions or directions given by the Designated Officer.

Should a dispute arise between the parties to this Agreement, then both parties shall make themselves immediately available to conduct bona fide negotiations in an effort to resolve the dispute.

Should the dispute not be settled during the negotiation period of twenty eight (28) days, then one party shall, by notice to the other party, require the other party to participate in conciliation to be handled and administered by the Australian Commercial Disputes Centre (ACDC) Ltd. The party requesting conciliation will instruct the ACDC to appoint a conciliator and will request the ACDC to determine appropriate terms for conciliation.

The conciliation will be conducted in Sydney.

The cost of the conciliation will be borne equally by both parties.

In the event of agreement not being reached between the parties after a period of twenty eight (28) days after the appointment of the conciliator, the parties agree to abide by the decision of the conciliator in order to bring about resolution of the dispute.

The failure of NSW DET at any time to enforce any of the terms or provisions of this Agreement or to exercise any right hereunder shall not constitute a waiver of the terms and conditions or affect NSW DET's right thereafter to enforce the terms and conditions of this Agreement.

This Agreement shall be governed and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New South Wales and the parties hereby submit to the jurisdiction of the Courts of that State.

The signatories hereto hereby personally warrant that they have express and sufficient authority to execute this Agreement on behalf of the party on whose behalf they have signed.

The moneys to be paid under this Agreement shall be paid by way of cheque or electronic funds transfer on completion of the agreed work under this agreement and upon receipt of a tax invoice.

Payment will be made as follows:
eg. Initial payment on completion of..$0.00eg. Second payment on completion of..$0.00eg. Final payment on completion of..$0.00

