The Scholarship Provider wishes to support the skills development of a QUT research student by funding a Scholarship for the student to undertake a Research Studies Program at QUT. 
QUT will administer the Scholarship. 
QUT and the Scholarship Provider wish to record the terms of their understanding in this Agreement.

This Agreement is subject to the Scholarship Student meeting QUT's Entry Requirements and receiving an offer of enrolment as a full time research student from QUT and the Scholarship Student staying enrolled as a full time research student.
Subject to Clause 2.1 this Agreement shall come into effect on the day it is signed by both Parties. 
The Agreement shall continue to the end of the Research Studies Program undertaken by the Scholarship Student or until the Scholarship Student ceases to be enrolled at QUT whichever is the earlier.

QUT will advertise the Scholarship and select the Scholarship Student in accordance with QUT policies and using a selection process that is based on merit or some other rational criteria as necessary. 
QUT will provide to the Scholarship Provider through the Principal Supervisor 6 monthly technical progress reports.
QUT will supervise the Scholarship Student. The Principal Supervisor will be responsible for the guidance and education of the Scholarship Student while enrolled in the Research Studies Program and conducting the Research Studies Project.
The Scholarship Provider will provide the Scholarship Student and the Principal Supervisor with access to the facilities described in Schedule 4. 
The Scholarship Provider may assist QUT with the supervision of the Scholarship Student by providing a supervisor who provides assistance and guidance to the Scholarship Student as required for the Research Studies Project.
The Scholarship Provider will pay the agreed amount to QUT in accordance with the schedule of payments in Schedule 3 or such other schedule of payments as may be agreed in writing by the Parties. QUT will invoice the Scholarship Provider in accordance with the schedule of payments in Schedule 3 or such other schedule of payments as may be agreed in writing by the Parties.
The Scholarship Provider acknowledges that where the Scholarship Student fails to achieve an adequate level of performance as determined by the Principal Supervisor or where the Scholarship Student does not remain enrolled full-time in the Research Studies Program, QUT will cease payments to the Scholarship Student but will not require the Scholarship Student to repay any part of the Scholarship Amount and that QUT is not responsible for repaying to the Scholarship Provider any portion of the Scholarship Amount already paid to the Scholarship Student.  However, QUT will repay to the Scholarship Provider any portion of the Scholarship Amount not already paid to the Scholarship Student.
The Scholarship Provider acknowledges that QUT is not obliged to find a replacement for the Scholarship Student or to finalise the Research Studies Project if the Scholarship Student fails to achieve adequate performance or if the Scholarship Student does not remain enrolled full-time in the Research Studies Program.  However, QUT will use its best endeavours to find such a replacement Scholarship Student.
The Scholarship provider acknowledges that the Scholarship Student will be required to comply with QUT's regulations covering the Research Studies Program in which the Scholarship Student is enrolled, including progression, reporting and examination.  

Where QUT becomes liable in accordance with the GST Law to pay an amount in respect of the Goods and Services Tax, then the Scholarship Amount may be increased by the amount of QUT's liability to pay GST except where the Scholarship Amount already includes an amount in respect of the QUT's liability to pay GST.
QUT will issue a Tax Invoice to the Scholarship Provider each time the Scholarship Provider makes a taxable Supply under this Agreement.

Ownership of the Intellectual Property in Existing Material which either Party shall contribute to the Research Studies Project shall remain unaffected by this Agreement.
The Parties hereby grant each other a royalty free, non-exclusive licence to use each others Existing Material provided for the Research Studies Project for the purpose of the Research Studies Project and subject to clauses 6.4 and 6.7 a royalty free, non-exclusive perpetual licence to use the other Party's Existing Material to the extent that such Existing Material is incorporated into the New Material.	
This Agreement does not vary the ownership and shall not be deemed to grant rights of use to any Intellectual Property which either Party shall develop independently of this Agreement.
Subject to the Scholarship Student signing the QUT Intellectual Property and Confidentiality Agreement, the Intellectual Property in the New Material shall vest in and be owned by QUT with the exception of the copyright in the Scholarship Student's Thesis.
The Scholarship Provider acknowledges that:
the Scholarship Student may require results of the Scholarship Student's participation in the Research Studies Project, in whole or in part, to be included and published as part of the Thesis;
copyright in the Thesis belongs to the Scholarship Student; and 
the right of the Scholarship Student to have the Thesis examined is not inhibited but QUT, upon the Scholarship Provider's request, will use reasonable efforts to ensure that any examiner signs a confidentiality agreement to protect Confidential Information of the Scholarship Provider contained in the Thesis.  
Upon the reasonable request of the Scholarship Provider, QUT will ensure that the Thesis is kept confidential for a period no longer than 12 months from the completion of the Research Studies Project.
Subject to clauses 6.4 and 7 QUT grants the Scholarship Provider the right to use the  Intellectual Property in the New Material for:
its own internal teaching; 
its own internal research; and/or 
academic publication purposes. 

For the avoidance of doubt, the licence granted under this clause 6.7 is not a licence to Commercialise the Intellectual Property in the New Material.
The Scholarship Provider shall do all things necessary, including but not limited to signing any documents, applications or declarations, in order to vest in QUT full and clear title to the Intellectual Property in the New Material and to assist QUT in obtaining registration as proprietor of any such Intellectual Property rights in Australia or elsewhere. 
All costs of transferring, filing, renewing and protecting the Intellectual Property in the New Material shall be met by QUT.
Subject to the terms of this Agreement, any Confidential Information disclosed by a Party ("the Disclosing Party") to the other Party ("the Receiving Party") in relation to the Research Studies  Project shall be treated by the Receiving Party as secret and confidential and shall not be disclosed to any other person for 5 years from the completion of the Research Studies Project without the prior written consent of the disclosing Party which consent may be given on such terms and conditions as the Disclosing Party thinks fit.
Where a Party ("the Publishing Party") proposes a disclosure of the other Party's Confidential Information for publication or presentation, it shall submit such material to the other Party ("the Consenting Party") for review at least 30 days prior to submission for publication or presentation. The Consenting Party shall respond within fourteen (14) days of receiving the request in accordance with one of the following options:
it shall provide its written consent to the publication or presentation; or		
it shall provide its consent to the publication or presentation subject to data being anonymised or its Confidential Information severed from the draft or such other amendment which in the opinion of the Scholarship provider is necessary; or 
it shall request a delay in disclosure of the publication or presentation so as not to prejudice Intellectual Property protection or commercialisation of Intellectual Property in the New Material.

In the event that the Publishing Party shall not have received a response from the Consenting Party within fourteen (14) days after submission it shall be entitled to assume consent has been granted to use the publication or presentation in the form of the draft submitted for review.  

If a dispute arises between the Parties (the "Dispute"), the Parties agree to negotiate in good faith to resolve the Dispute and will refer resolution of the Dispute to their respective chief executive officers or their nominees. 
If the Dispute has not been resolved by negotiation within 30 days then either of the Parties may refer the Dispute to mediation and will do so before initiating court proceedings to resolve the Dispute.  
A Dispute which is referred to mediation will be referred to the Queensland Branch of the Institute of Arbitrators and Mediators Australia (IAMA) and will be conducted in accordance with the Mediation Rules of IAMA.  
If the Dispute has not been resolved within sixty (60) days of referral to IAMA any Party is free to initiate court proceedings.  
Nothing in this clause will prevent a Party from seeking interlocutory relief through courts of appropriate jurisdiction.
Each Party will bear its own costs of mediation undertaken under this clause 8.  However, the costs of the appointed mediator will be shared equally by the Parties to the mediation.

In the event that the Scholarship Provider elects to contract research and development for further studies arising out of this Research Studies Project, it agrees to inform QUT of its intention to do so, and QUT has the right to negotiate in good faith a research and development contract with the Scholarship Provider, and this is recognised as a first right of refusal over that contract.
The Parties may vary any of the terms of this Agreement but any variation will be effective only if evidenced in writing signed by the Parties. 
This Agreement shall be governed by and is to be construed in accordance with the laws applicable in Queensland, Australia. The Parties agree to submit to the courts having jurisdiction in Queensland to entertain any action in respect of, or arising out of this Agreement.
If any provision of this Agreement is prohibited, void, invalid or unenforceable, the provision shall be ineffective and severed from this Agreement to the extent it is prohibited, void, invalid or unenforceable. 

A Party must not assign, sub-contract, or transfer, any of its rights or obligations arising from this Agreement in whole or in part to any person without prior written consent of the other Party.  

If by reason of any fact, circumstance, matter or thing beyond the reasonable control of a party, that party is unable to perform in whole or in part any obligation under this Agreement that party is relieved of that obligation under this Agreement to the extent and for the period that it is so unable to perform and is not liable to the other party to this Agreement in respect of such inability.

QUT shall not be under any liability to the Scholarship Provider in respect of ANY loss or damage (including consequential loss or damage) however caused, that may be suffered or incurred or that may arise directly or indirectly out of the conduct of the Research Studies Project or the use of the New Material or any other product resulting from the Research Studies Project or the failure or omission on the part of QUT to comply with its obligations under this Agreement.
The Parties exclude hereby to the extent permitted by the law all express and implied warranties in relation to the performance of this Agreement and to the performance of the Research Studies Project, in particular any warranty that the Research Studies Project will achieve any particular result.
The Scholarship Provider acknowledges that it is aware that investment in the Research Studies Project carries with it the risk of loss and the risk that the research will not result in any marketable products or commercial outcomes.
Under no circumstances is QUT liable to the Scholarship Provider for any of the following even if informed of their possibility: 
loss of, or damage to data;
special, incidental, or indirect damages or any economic consequential damages; and/or 
lost profits, business, revenue, goodwill, or anticipated savings. 

Any Notice:
May be given by an authorised officer of the relevant party; and
Must be in writing; and
Must be left at the address of the addressee, or sent by prepaid ordinary post (airmail if international) to the address of the addressee or facsimile to the facsimile number of the addressee which is specified below or if the addressee notified in writing another address or facsimile number then to that address or facsimile number.
Unless a later time is specified in it a Notice takes effect from the time it is actually received or taken to be received.
A Notice sent by post, or facsimile is taken to be received:
In the case of a letter, on the 3rd (14th, if international) day after posting;
In the case of a facsimile, on production of a transmission report by the machine from which the facsimile was sent which indicates that the facsimile was sent in its entirety to the facsimile number of the recipient notified for the purpose of this clause if produced before 5 pm on a business day otherwise on the next business day.
       
All stamp duty payable on this Agreement or any documents or instruments of transfer to be executed pursuant hereto shall be shared by the Parties. The Parties shall pay their own legal costs and disbursements incurred in the preparation and execution of this Agreement
The Scholarship Provider will reimburse at cost any additional payment made by QUT for excise and other taxes, which are attributable to the Research Studies Project and imposed upon QUT (directly or indirectly) by national or local authorities. Any amounts due under this sub-clause will be invoiced with the instalments referred to in Schedule 3.

Nothing contained in this Agreement will be construed as implying that the relationship between the Scholarship Provider and QUT and/or the Scholarship Student is that of partners, joint venturers, or employer/employee. 
No Party may act or has any authority to act as an agent of or in any way bind or commit the other Party to any obligation.
This Agreement together with its Schedules constitutes the entire agreement between the Parties with respect to the subject matter thereof and contains all of the representations, undertakings, warranties, covenants and agreements of the Parties.