The Vendor appoints the Broker as his agent to sell the Boat for the GROSS sum of $        , less costs outlined in Clause 4, in cleared funds by cash or bank cheque or telegraphic transfer less bank charges with delivery and possession of the                                                      Boat at      .
The Vendor may agree to accept a different sum and accept different terms confirmed in writing or by email.
The Vendor appoints the Broker -  (Place cross in one box only)
act as the Vendor's exclusive agent for the sale of the Boat for 3 months from the date of this agreement. At the end of which period the Broker is the Vendor's non-exclusive agent. 
Any sale effected by the Vendor within the period of this agreement to any Purchaser introduced by the Vendor of the Boat, then any such sale shall be deemed to be a sale effected by the Broker, then the Vendor shall pay to the Broker at 50% of the fee that the Broker would have received had the Broker effected the sale.
Any sale effected by the Vendor within a period of three months after the expiration of this agreement to any Purchaser introduced by the Broker to the Vendor or Boat, then any such sale shall be deemed to be a sale effected by the Broker, and the provisions of Clause 4 hereof shall apply and the Vendor shall pay to the Broker a fee as identical to the fee that the Broker would have received had the Broker effected the sale;
OR
As the Vendor's sole agent for the sale of the Boat for 3 months from the date of this agreement with the Vendor reserving the right to sell the Boat directly to a buyer not introduced by the Broker at the end of which period the Broker is the Vendor's non-exclusive agent;
OR
As the Vendor's non-exclusive agent for the sale of the Boat.

The Vendor warrants that, except for any rights of a person or corporation disclosed in this clause,
the Boat is free from all encumbrance and other interests;
the Boat is wholly owned by the Vendor;
the Vendor has complete unfettered power to sell the Boat; 
upon payment of the sale price in full the Vendor will provide a discharge from the person or        corporation having rights over the Boat as disclosed in this clause;
the Boat shall be insured by the Owner while the Boat is for sale;
the Vendor shall keep the Broker safe and indemnified against all claims made against him by any persons both now and in the future from any liability that may arise from any claim or claims whatsoever;
the Vendor must inform the broker when the Boat is not available;
that the broker is not responsible for mechanical, structural, or any component failure of the Boat while it is under the Broker's control;
that the Boat is registered with the appropriate authorities and has a Boat Code;
to pay the brokerage commissions, costs and disbursements as outlined in Clause;
Name and address of other person or corporation having rights over the Boat and description of those rights
     
The Vendor grants the Broker, its servants or agents permission to:
Board the Boat for purposes of inspection, agreed maintenance, cleaning, or any such works as agreed by Vendor.
demonstrate the Boat by appointment to any inquiring purchaser, and in this regard the owner shall make available to the Broker the Boat on demand.
Operate the engine(s), electronics and gear for demonstration purposes.
Motor or sail the Boat for demonstration purposes.
Take such other reasonable steps in relation to the Boat as may in the Broker's opinion be necessary to further the prospective sale of the Boat.
Advertise and promote the sale of the Boat and at all times utilise best efforts to effect the sale of the Boat. All advertisements will mention PowerSail Marine.
The Broker is not liable for any damage or mechanical or other failure to the Boat which occurs or becomes apparent while the Boat is under the Broker's control, nor for the care of or custody of the Boat.
The Vendor must pay the broker commission, plus costs outlined in Clause 4.2 below, on the sale price.
Forthwith on the completion of the sale to a Purchaser introduced by the Broker.
OR
If the Vendor sells the Boat during the exclusive period;
OR
Forthwith upon the Broker procuring a Contract for sale of the Boat which is not completed and where the deposit paid under the Contract is forfeited to the Vendor.

The Broker may deduct and retain agreed and unpaid costs as shown below from the sale proceeds or deposit. Vendor agrees to pay costs below, in advance, as required. 
Mooring/Berthing $     /mth	Initial	Advertising (except website & BoatPoint) $ Initial $ Initial          $      	Initial                   			                          $      	Initial				                          $      	InitialCleaning                                                                $      	Initial                                                                                           $      	Initial                                                                              $      	Initial                                                                              $      	InitialRepairs & Maintenance                                         $      	Initial                                                                              $      	Initial                                                                              $      	Initial REVS, etc                                                             $      	InitialOther                                                                     $      	Initial                                                                              $      	Initial                                                                              $      	Initial
The Broker may deduct and retain the commission and costs from the sale proceeds or deposit.
The Vendor must pay to the Broker Commission at      % of the final Contract price of the Boat plus GST.
The Vendor declares that the particulars given in this agreement are to the best of his knowledge correct and that all items listed in the Details of Boat are included in the sale of the Boat.

The Vendor agrees to slip the Boat for inspection, clean the hull and return the Boat to the water and to conduct sea trials once a contract of sale is negotiated and a deposit is held (normally 10% of the sale price) by the Broker.  The cost of slipping the Boat and of the inspection is to be met by the Purchaser and the cost of the sea trials by the Vendor unless otherwise agreed.
Is the Vendor aware of any problems such as Osmosis, Structural or Mechanical that may be revealed during a survey;
The laws of the state govern this Agreement. Any proceeding under it may be commenced in an appropriate Court in the State and each party unconditionally submits to the jurisdiction of that Court.
The Vendor may only terminate this agency by giving the Broker one (1) month's written notice.  Notice may not be given to expire during any sole or exclusive agency period.  
