The laws of the Australian Capital Territory apply to this Agreement
This Agreement records the entire agreement between the Parties in relation to its subject matter.
No variation of this Agreement is binding unless agreed in writing between the Parties.
If a court or tribunal says any provision of this Agreement has no effect or interprets a provision to reduce an obligation or right, this does not invalidate any other provision.
If a party does not exercise, or delays in exercising, any of its rights under this Agreement or at law, that failure or delay does not operate as a waiver of those rights.
A single or partial exercise by a party of any of its rights under this Agreement or at law does not prevent the further exercise of any right.
The Participant cannot assign its obligations, and agrees not to assign its rights, under this Agreement without, in either case, prior approval in writing from the Guild.

The Guild will pay the Funds to the Participant, subject to the Guild actually receiving those Funds from the Commonwealth, by installments in accordance with the payment provisions in set out in Schedule 1, Item D.
The funding to be contributed by the Guild for the Project will not exceed the amount of Funds specified in Item D.
The Participant must advise the Department of any other funds that it is or will be receiving for the Project.
The Guild may at its discretion defer, reduce or not make a payment of Funds where it forms the reasonable opinion that the full payment is not properly required by the Participant because of Project surpluses or underspends. 
Without limiting its rights, the Guild may at its discretion defer, reduce or not make a payment of Funds until the Participant has performed all of its obligations that are required to be performed up to the date of that payment under this Agreement.
In consideration of the provision of the Funds, the Participant must use the Funds only for the Project and according to the terms and conditions set out in this Agreement.
The Participant agrees to submit invoices for payment of the Funds in the manner specified in Item D.  The amount of the invoice must not exceed the amount of Funds properly required by the Participant for its use in relation to the Project up to the date of the next invoice.

The Participant must keep complete and proper accounts and records of its transactions and affairs in relation to the Funds, in accordance with this Agreement and as required by Law and must ensure that all payments out of the Funds are correctly made and properly authorised and that adequate control in maintained over the incurring of liabilities.  The Participant must retain all accounts and records for at least seven years after the end of the term.
The Participant must not commit any part of the Funds for expenditure that is likely to occur after the end of the Project Period without prior written approval from the Guild.

The Participant must provide the Guild's Liaison Officer with Progress Reports and a Final Report in accordance with the time-frame for Reports specified in Item C.  
Each Progress Report must contain the information specified in Item C and must also include:
a Financial Statement;
Information covering the Project Period to the date of the progress Report on whether the objectives and outcomes of the Project are being achieved; and
if requested by the Guild, a copy of any Material produced in relation to this Agreement up to the date of the Progress Report.
The Final Report must contain the information specified in Item C and must also include:
a Financial Statement; and
a comprehensive report on whether the objectives and outcomes of the Project were achieved and if not, the reasons why those objectives and outcomes were not achieved.
The Participant must meet of liaise with and report to the Guild's Liaison Officer as reasonably required by the Guild's Liaison Officer for the purposes of this Agreement.
Upon receipt of reasonable written notice, the Participant must within the time-frame stipulated in the notice, or within a reasonable time-frame if no time-frame is stipulated in the notice, provide any information in relation to the Project requested by the Guild for the purposes of this Agreement, including monitoring and evaluation.

The Participant must, at all reasonable times, give to persons authorised in writing by the Guild, permission to:
inspect any Material relevant to this Agreement; and
access and copy any records of the Participant relating to the Project or the receipt, expenditure or other use of the Funds.
The Participant agrees to provide all assistance reasonably requested by the Guild in respect of any inquiry into or concerning the Project or this Agreement.
This clause 6 applies until the date of the expiration or earlier termination of this Agreement and for a period of 7 years from that date.   

Any Intellectual Property rights and title to, or in relation to, the Project Material will vest, upon creation, in the Guild.
The Participant grants to the Commonwealth a perpetual, irrevocable, royalty-free and licence fee-free, world-wide, non-exclusive licence (including a right of sub-licence) to use, copy, modify and exploit the Project Material.
This clause 7 does not affect the ownership of any Intellectual Property in any Existing Material.  However, the Participant undertakes to grant to the Commonwealth, or (in respect of Existing Material not owned by the Participant) must arrange for the grant to the Commonwealth and the Guild, of a perpetual, irrevocable, royalty-free and licence fee-free, world-wide, non-exclusive licence (including a right of sub-licence) to use, copy, modify and exploit the Existing Material in conjunction with the other Project Material. 
The Participant warrants for the benefit of the Participant and the Commonwealth that anything done by the Participant in the course of the performance of this agreement will not infringe the Intellectual Property rights of any person.
For this clause, the 'Specified Acts' relating to Moral Rights means any of the following classes or types of acts or omissions by or on behalf of the Guild or the Commonwealth:
using, reproducing, adapting, modifying, publishing, broadcasting, communicating, commercializing or exploiting all or any part of the Project Material, with our without attribution or authorship;
supplementing the Project Material with any other material; and
using the Project material in a different context to that originally envisaged,
but does not include false attribution of authorship.
The Participant warrants that for the benefit of the Guild and the Commonwealth that:
the author of any Project Material has given or will give a written consent to the Specified Acts (whether occurring before or after the consent is given) which is given directly or indirectly for the Guilds and the Commonwealth's benefit; and
the author of any Existing Material has given or will give a written consent to the Specified Acts (whether occurring before or after the consent is given) which is given directly or indirectly for the Guild and the Commonwealth's benefit in relation to such Material being used, reproduced, adapted and exploited in conjunction with the other Project Material. 
Intellectual Property rights entitled to, or in relation to:
Commonwealth Material remains vested at all times in the Commonwealth; and
Guild Material remain vested at all times in the Guild.
The Guild grants to the Participant royalty-free and licence fee-free, world-wide, non-exclusive licence to use, copy and modify:
Commonwealth Material, to the same extent that the Guild is authorized to use the Commonwealth Material; and 
the Guild Material, 
in each case for the sole purpose of performing the Services.  The Participant must ensure that all Commonwealth Material is used strictly in accordance with any conditions or restrictions specified by the Guild or the Commonwealth and that all Guild Material is used strictly in accordance with any conditions or restrictions specified by the Participant.
This clause 7 survives expiration or earlier termination of this agreement. 

The Participant must acknowledge, and must ensure that its subcontractors' acknowledge that the Project was the result of the financial and other support it has received from the Commonwealth: in:
all publications, promotional and advertising materials, public announcements and activities by it or on its behalf in relation to the Project or any products, processes or inventions developed as a result of the Project; and
the form set out in Item F, and if not set out in Item F, then in a form approved by the Guild prior to its use.     
The Participant is not by virtue of this Agreement, or for any purpose, an employee, partner or agent of the Guild or the Commonwealth, or invested with any power or authority to bind or represent the Participant or the Commonwealth.
The Participant must not represent itself, and must use its best endeavors to ensure that its Participant Personnel do not represent themselves, as being an officer, employee, partner or agent of the Guild or the Commonwealth, or as otherwise able to bind or represent the Guild or the Commonwealth.  
If:  
the Guild is satisfied on reasonable grounds that the terms and conditions of this Agreement have not been complied with by the Participant;
the Guild is satisfied on reasonable grounds that the Participant is unable or unwilling to satisfy the terms of this Agreement;
the Guild, by notice of writing, requests the Participant to take action to meet a timeframe or perform an activity in accordance with this Agreement and, after 14 days from the date of this notice (or such longer period as specified in the notice), the Participant has failed to take such action; or
the Guild is satisfied on reasonable grounds that any statement made by the Participant is incorrect or incomplete in a way which would have affected the original decision to select the Participant to perform the Project; 
the Guild may, by written notice to the Participant,  terminate this Agreement or require the Participant to immediately suspend dealings with the Funds.
If this Agreement is terminated in accordance with clause 10.1(c), the Guild will only be liable for any reasonable costs (excluding, without limitation, loss of prospective income or profits) unavoidably incurred by the Participant, which are directly attributable to the termination.  The Guild will not be liable to pay any amount in excess of the amount of Funds remaining unpaid under this Agreement at the date of termination and in respect of such Funds the Participant shall only have recourse to the funds held by the Guild from the Commonwealth that the Guild is lawfully authorised to apply in payment of such Funds under the Project Agreement.
On termination of this Agreement, or for the duration of any suspension of dealings with the Funds, the Participant must hold the Funds in utmost good faith for use only in accordance with the directions of the Guild and will cease all other dealings with the Funds.
The Guild may end the suspension of dealings with the Funds by written notice to the Participant, subject to such preconditions which the Guild may reasonably require.
Except as provided in this clause, the Guild will not come under any liability to the Participation for termination of this Agreement in accordance with clause 10.1.

If:
on the expiration of the Project Period or on any earlier termination of this Agreement, any Funds:
remain unspent or uncommitted; or
cannot, by reconciliation between the accounts and records maintained by the Participant (as reported to the Guild by the Participant in the financial statements referred to in clauses 4.2 and 4.3 (Reports)) be shown to the reasonable satisfaction of the Guild to have been spent or committed in accordance with this Agreement; or 
at any time the Guild forms the reasonable opinion that any Funds have been used, spent or committed by the Participant other than in accordance with this Agreement;
the Guild may by written notice to the Participant require the Participant to repay that part of the Funds, and the Participant must repay to the Guild the amount set out in the notice, within 28 days of receipt of the notice.  
The operation of this clause survives the expiration or earlier termination of this Agreement.

The Participant indemnifies the Guild, its officers, employees and agents ('those indemnified') from and against all Liabilities arising under an indemnity given by the Guild to the Commonwealth under the Project Agreement, to the extent the Liability has arisen in connection with a negligent or fraudulent act or omission of the University or a breach of this agreement or unlawful act of the Participant.. 
The Participant's liability to indemnify the Guild under clause 12.1 will be reduced proportionally to the extent that any unlawful or negligent act or omission of the Guild or it's officers, employees or agents contributed to the loss or damage.
The right of the Guild to be indemnified under this clause 12 is in addition to, and not exclusive of, any other right, power or remedy provide by Law.

Except as provided by this clause, all taxes, duties and government charges imposed or levied in Australia or overseas in connection with the performance of this Agreement will be borne by the State.
The Funds payable (the Original Funds Payable) to the State do not include any amount to cover any liability of the State for Goods and Services Tax (GST) on any supplies made under this Agreement which are taxable supplies within the meaning of A New Tax System (Goods and Services Tax) Act 1999 (the GST Act).
If a supply made by the State under this Agreement is a taxable supply under the GST Act, the State may, by notice in writing to the Department, increase the Original Funds Payable by the Department by the amount of GST that is payable by the State on that part of the Original Funds Payable which relates to the taxable supply as if that part of the Original Funds Payable is the value of the supply for the purposes of the GST Act.
If required by the Department, the State must substantiate to the Department's reasonable satisfaction how any change in the amounts payable by the Department determined under this clause have been calculated before such changes will take effect.
In relation to any taxable supplies made under this Agreement, the State agrees to issue the Department with a tax invoice in accordance with the GST Act, together with or as part of each claim for further payment of Funds submitted for payment pursuant to clause 4.2 (Reports).
The Participant must not disclose Confidential Information without prior approval in writing from the Guild.  In giving written approval the Gild may impose such terms and conditions as it thinks fit.
The Commonwealth may at any time by notice in writing to the Participant, require the Participant to give, and to arrange for its employees and subcontractors engaged in the performance of the Projects to give written undertakings, in a form required by the Commonwealth, relating to the non-disclosure of Confidential Information.  The Participant must promptly arrange for all such undertakings to be given.
The obligations on the Participant under this clause will not be taken to have been breached where the information referred to is required by law to be disclosed.
The obligations contained in this clause 14 shall survive the expiration or termination of this Agreement.

A party giving notice under this Agreement must do so in writing, including by facsimile, that is:
directed to the party's address specified in Item E marked for the attention of the Liaison Officer; and
hand delivered or sent by pre-paid post or facsimile to that address.

The Participant acknowledges that the Funds for the payments referred to above will be sourced from Funds provided by the Commonwealth to the Guild under the Small Project Funding Scheme.  The payment will be made 14 days after the relevant condition precedent has been satisfied (the correct invoice having been previously received and the Guild holding funds from the Commonwealth for the purpose which it is lawfully entitled to pay to the participant).

The Participant must provide the Guild with a correctly rendered tax invoice which:
indentifies the name of the project
sets out the name of the participant's liaison officer
contains a claim for the amount of funds properly required; and 
is a tax invoice


The Participant acknowledges that all Material produced by or on its behalf in relation to the Project must acknowledge (unless directed by the Guild or the Commonwealth no to) that the funding source is as follows - "This Project is funded by the Small Project Funding Scheme as a component of the Rural Pharmacy Workforce Program.  The RPWP is funded by the Australian Government Department of Health and Ageing and is managed by The Pharmacy Guild of Australia.".
This Intellectual Property Register is to be used to record all existing Intellectual Property ("IP") used in relation to the development of Contract Project Material ("Project") and all IP developed during the Contract Project (including new IP, all modifications and adaptations of new IP and IP developed from existing IP).
The forms of IP which must be recorded are all copyright, trade marks, designs, patents, circuit layout rights and plant breeders' rights relevant to the Project.
