The terms of this Agreement will apply when you return a signed copy of this Agreement to us, or accept one of our employees on a temporary basis, after receiving a copy of this Agreement. The Agreement will continue to remain in force, until it has been validly terminated (excepting that some clauses will survive the termination of this Agreement, where indicated).
We shall provide our employees to perform services for you on a temporary basis, upon your request, subject to our receiving from you a description of the temporary position which you require to be filled and sufficient details concerning the nature of the services which you require to be performed.
The hourly rates which we will charge you for providing the services of our employees are set out in the Schedule. We can amend our rates by sending to you an amended Schedule in which case, the amended rates will apply from the date you receive the amended Schedule, or from the date on which the amended Schedule is to commence, as indicated on the Schedule. 
If we are reasonably satisfied that you have breached clause 7 below and this results in one or more of our employees sustaining an injury, we will be entitled to increase our rates to reflect any corresponding increase in our workers' compensation premiums.

Our charges will be based on the number of hours worked by our employees on Assignment, as recorded in our timesheets which have been signed by you and/or as verified by our employees. You agree to complete time sheets accurately and to submit them to us promptly.
We will send invoices regularly to you, and such invoices are to be paid by you within seven (7) days of their date. Payments are to be made as prescribed in the Schedule. If you do not pay such invoices within seven (7) days of their date, you will be liable to pay us interest on the amounts contained in those invoices, calculated at the rate of 2% per annum above the official interest rate as set from time to time by the Reserve Bank of Australia.
If payment is not received by VIP Personnel within the prescribed time, you will incur all associated costs in recovering the monies, including but not limited to debt collection agency fees and commission, and legal fees.

Either party may terminate this Agreement by giving two weeks notice to the other party.
If you terminate this Agreement in accordance with clause 5.1, you will still be liable to pay to us all outstanding charges  (including any outstanding disbursements which you may have previously approved) and any Subsequent Placement Fees, in accordance with clause 8.2 below. You will also be liable to pay us the Consultation Fee, for services rendered, which is set out in the Schedule, and which we may waive at our discretion.
You may also terminate an Assignment, at your sole discretion, immediately, if at any time the employee becomes:
charged with any criminal offence which, in your reasonable opinion, brings you, us, or the employee into serious disrepute;
of unsound mind, or is a person who is or whose assets are liable to be dealt with under any law relating to mental health;
unable or unwilling to carry out reasonable directions given by you;
guilty of misconduct;
fails to carry out his or her duties diligently for your benefit;
acts inappropriately or engages in unprofessional conduct, designed or likely to, or which may have the effect of, causing damage to the reputation of you or the employee.
If you are not satisfied with the performance of any one of our employees, and want them replaced, you agree to liaise with us and not to our employee about the replacement of that employee. In this regard you agree:
Not to communicate anything to the employee indicating that their Assignment will be cancelled (or words to that effect); and
To contact us as soon as is reasonably practicable if you have a serious problem with the performance of the employee.
We agree:
To ensure that our employees will be covered by any statutory policies of workers' compensation, which will be in force in relation the employees during the currency of an Assignment.
To be responsible for the collection, payment or remittance of any taxes in accordance with our statutory obligations.

You agree:
To provide us with full and accurate information concerning your service requirements, including written descriptions relating to any temporary positions which you require to be filled and services which you require to be performed.
That you will contact us if you wish to significantly change the job function or system of work that applies to our employees on an Assignment and to comply with our reasonable requests to ensure the workplace health and safety of our employees. You also agree to provide induction, training and safety consumables to our employees, where appropriate.
To comply with your obligations to our employees pursuant to any relevant legislation, including legislation relating to the workplace and occupational health and safety and discrimination.
To notify us immediately of an event that is likely to give rise to a claim on any insurance policy that relates to any one of our employees.
That if any one of our employees sustains an injury which is compensable under any law relating to workers' compensation or occupational health and safety, you will assist, where practicable, with the rehabilitation of our employee by way of providing our employee, through us, with suitable work (including light duties) once our employee is able to return to work. In the event that such work is provided, and is of a lesser value, classification or remuneration than the work principally contracted for under the Assignment, we will discount our charges by the percentage set out in the Schedule. 
To report to us in relation to any performance issues in relation to our employees in a written format, so that we may counsel the employees correctly if necessary.
To forward to us copies of any accident or near miss reports which involve our employees.
To keep confidential any information we provide to you about our employees or potential employees, whether written or verbal, including the fact that they are looking for a new position. This clause will survive the termination of this Agreement.

After any one of our employees has completed an Assignment with you, you agree not to contact that employee directly to offer them work, without our prior consent, which will not be unreasonably withheld. You also agree not to pay our employees directly for their services on an Assignment

If you (or a Related Body Corporate) appoint any one of our employees, previously supplied to you on an Assignment, as a member of your staff (whether in a casual or in a permanent position) you agree to pay us the following Placement Fee within seven (7) days of engaging that employee:
A sum representing 10% of the equivalent gross annual remuneration of the employee (or each if more than one) in their previous year of employment, applying to their employment with us; or
Where the employee has worked for you on a casual or ad hoc basis, or for a period of less than 12 months, the sum of $1,500.00.
GST
We will charge you GST of 10% (or such other amount as may be prescribed by appropriate legislation from time to time) in addition to all fees for services provided. We shall also ensure that any invoice rendered to you satisfies the requirement of a tax invoice for the purposes of the GST legislation.
We will not be liable to you in respect of any loss or damage however caused, whether by our negligence or the acts, omissions or negligence of our employees, whilst they are on Assignment with you, whether directly or indirectly, in respect of the services provided under this Agreement.
Where any Act of Parliament implies in this Agreement any term and such a term voids or prohibits provisions in an agreement excluding, restricting or modifying the application of the provisions of that Act; or any liability for a breach of a condition or warranty implied by the provisions of any Act; such a term shall be deemed to be included in this Agreement. Our liability for any breach of such a term shall be limited, however, at our option to any one of more of the following:
providing the services again; or
the payment of the cost of providing the services.
This Agreement shall not be altered, modified or amended in any manner except by written agreement between the parties, or as otherwise indicated in this Agreement.

The failure of a party at any time:
to enforce or require strict compliance with a provision of this Agreement; or
to make an election or to exercise a discretion under this Agreement, 
does not operate as a waiver or postponement of any right, power or remedy which a party may have under this Agreement.

Unless expressly permitted by this Agreement, a party shall not assign, either in whole or in part, their rights or obligations under this Agreement.

If a provision of this Agreement is declared to be invalid, unenforceable, illegal or contrary to public policy, such invalidity, unenforceability or illegality shall vitiate the provision only and that provision shall be deemed deleted or modified to the extent necessary to render the remainder of the provisions valid or enforceable, and shall not otherwise in any way vitiate any other provision of this Agreement.

I / We agree that VIP may obtain a credit report containing information about me / us from a credit reporting agency for the purposes of assessing my / our application for commercial credit and collecting overdue repayments relating to commercial credit owed by the Company to VIP.  We acknowledge that if we do not provide VIP with this consent, VIP may not be able to process our application for commercial credit.  

VIP may give information about us to a credit reporting agency to obtain a consumer credit report about us and/or to allow the credit reporting agency to create or maintain a credit information file containing information about us.  This information will be limited to:

The company that will be collecting credit information in the manner described in this credit information consent is V.I.P. Personnel Pty Ltd (ACN 007 272 451).  The individual, organisation, or company in relation to which credit information is collected may access information V.I.P holds about it by contacting VIP on (03) 9650 9206.
The Client (Host Employer) will;
meet their obligations under the OH&S Act, Regulations and approved Codes of Practice and agree that V.I.P have a right to monitor their employee's health and safety while working for the client
provide the necessary information to ensure that the appropriate labour hire employees are provided
do all things reasonably practicable to eliminate hazards and control risks to health and safety and correct any hazards identified during hazard inspections and provide details of the appropriate changes to V.I.P. Personnel
provide workers with appropriate supervision consistent with the risks to health and safety associated with the job or at the workplace
induct all labour hire employees placed in the workplace into any relevant health and safety information, prior to the commencement of work.  The induction will include a briefing on emergency response/evacuation procedures for the workplace and who should be contacted if they require emergency or first aid assistance and all other details relevant to the workplace and work performed
inform V.I.P. of any fundamental variation in workplace, work practices, procedures or conditions prior to the commencement of work.  The workers are only available to work on those jobs for which they have been trained and assigned.  Workers must not work outside the scope of the hiring contract
advise V.I.P. immediately of any accident in which one of our employees is involved.  The client will also actively cooperate and work along side V.I.P. Personnel in following up all incidents or near misses with a joint inspection and joint follow up action where required
provide assistance where available and appropriate in facilitating a return to work plan for the injured worker (no cost to be incurred by the Client)
V.I.P. Personnel will;
monitor the health and safety of all contract employees and ensure that the Clients are abiding by their obligations as outlined above
provide Occupational Health and Safety procedures and rules for its employees working on Clients sites aimed at the prevention of accidents
provide a comprehensive rehabilitation program in the event that an injury does occur. Cost occurred in relation to a Work Cover claim will be the sole responsibility of V.I.P.
regularly liaise with all clients concerning the health and safety of its employees with the aim of continually improving the safety of the workplace and its systems
employ the right person for each job so that persons are not unnecessarily put at risk of injury to themselves or others persons
endeavour to eliminate or control any hazards identified by employees through communication with the client
provide an incident/accident reporting and investigation procedure to identify the means of preventing a reoccurrence of injury, illness or accident
periodically visit the clients premises and work with the nominated OH&S representative to ensure that V.I.P. have the most up to date information on the Clients site as well as their needs
It is policy of V.I.P. that all work activities shall be undertaken with all measures considered reasonable and practical, in order to minimise and where possible eliminate any hazards, exposure or risks to health by its employees and the employees of host clients.
