The Transferor agrees to sell and the Crown agrees to purchase all title to and property rights in the work ("the Work") specified in the Schedule.
The above sale will include (but not be limited to) the unlimited assignment to the Crown of the entire copyright in the Work for the full duration of the copyright and in all territories.
The above sale will be taken to have been completed when the Crown has paid to the Transferor the purchase price described in Clause 2 ("the Completion Date").

The Crown will pay to the Transferor the purchase price of $[			], exclusive of GST, payable as specified in the Schedule.

The Transferor must deliver the Work to the Crown by the Completion Date.

The Transferor warrants to the Crown that:
it is the owner of all title to and property rights in the Work
its ownership rights include the ownership of the entire copyright in the Work for the full duration of the copyright and in all territories
no third party has any copyright or other property rights in the Work.

This Agreement will be governed by the law of Tasmania and the parties submit to the jurisdiction of the Courts of Tasmania.

Subject to any other provision of this Agreement expressing a contrary intention, if GST is imposed on a supply made under it, then the party paying for the supply must pay the amount of the GST to the party making the supply, at the same time as, and in addition to, the amount payable for the supply
A party making a taxable supply under this Agreement must give the recipient a tax invoice for the taxable supply when that supply is made.
In this clause "GST" refers to goods and services tax under A New Tax System (Goods and Services) Act 1999 ("GST Act") and the terms used have the meanings as defined in the GST Act.

The expiration or completion of this Agreement does not extinguish the warranties of the Transferor which have accrued under the Agreement and in particular the provisions, rights and obligations described in Clauses 3, 4 and 6 will survive and continue to apply.

A notice or other communication to be given or made pursuant to this Agreement must be in writing and addressed to the parties at their respective addresses specified in the Schedule.
A notice or other communication is taken to have been duly served:-
in the case of hand delivery, when delivered;
if sent by prepaid post on the fifth day after the date of posting;
if sent by facsimile transmission (provided that the sending facsimile machine produces a print out of the time date and uninterrupted transmission record of the sending of the notice) - upon completion of sending if such completion is within ordinary business hours in the place where the recipient's facsimile machine is located, but if not, then at 9.00 a.m. on the next ordinary business day in that place.

