The parties will co-operate to: 
identify Projects of interest to the parties; 
facilitate the development of proposals for Projects between the two organizations including exploring possibilities for grants and other forms of funding;
determine the terms and conditions of the agreements under which each Project will be conducted and the intellectual property arising from the Project will be owned and licensed ("Collaboration Agreements"); 
establish those Projects; and
conduct an annual review of current and future Projects approximately one (1) week prior to the anniversary of the execution of this MOU.

Subject to the terms of any Collaboration Agreement agreed to, each party will have the right, in any field related to the Project or otherwise, to:
conduct business or research independently, whether or not with third parties;
continue existing commitments, or make new ones; and
exploit or otherwise take advantage of its intellectual property.

The parties confirm their intention to negotiate and settle the terms of a Collaboration Agreement in respect of which each Project will take place.
Each Collaboration Agreement will include provisions dealing with, amongst other things:
the provision of a Project plan pursuant to which the Project will be carried out which will include information pertaining to technical objectives, statement of work, deliverables, schedule, decision gates, resource requirements and costs;
the funding arrangements for the Project;
the provision for the parties to hold periodic Project review meetings to assess the management and the progress of the Project and the status of any expenditure;
provisions dealing with intellectual property, including ownership and exploitation; and
relevant commercial arrangements between the University and [Partner short name].

The parties acknowledge that for any agreement to be binding on them, it must be in writing and signed by a duly authorised representative of each of the University and [Partner short name].

For the term of this MOU, each party may appoint one of its employees to act as its representative in relation to this MOU (each such employee being a "Representative").
The Representative of an appointing party will be responsible for:
managing, overseeing or co-ordinating that party's relationship with the other party;
identifying any commercial issues that arise between the parties and referring those issues to the appropriate person within the Representative's organisation;
discussing issues arising out of this MOU or a Collaboration Agreement with the Representative of the other party; and
co-ordinating the exchange of information between the parties.

The parties may exchange Confidential Information relevant to proposed Projects.
Each party undertakes to treat as confidential all Confidential Information obtained from the other party and undertakes not to divulge any Confidential Information to any person without first obtaining the consent of the other party in writing.
Each Party will take such reasonable steps to provide for the safe custody of any and all Confidential Information in its possession and to prevent unauthorised access thereto or use thereof.
At any time upon the written request of a party, the other party must return any documents which embody Confidential Information and must not keep any copies in any form.

The term of this MOU is a period of one (1) year from the date of execution.  The MOU will be automatically renewed for a further period of one (1) year unless one party notifies the other party in writing that they do not wish to renew the MOU at the completion of the annual review of current and future Projects. 
This MOU may be terminated by mutual consent of the parties.  Either party may terminate this MOU upon one (1) month written notice to the other.
A Collaboration Agreement made pursuant to clause 2 of this MOU will survive termination or expiration of this MOU.
This MOU may only be amended by agreement in writing between the parties but not otherwise.
The University and [Partner short name] acknowledge that each of them is free to undertake [insert field] projects on their own or in conjunction with third persons, and that the parties will co-operate only in circumstances where each of them agrees co-operation is for their benefit and each is satisfied that the specific provisions covering that co-operation are appropriate.
With the exception of clause 4, this MOU is not binding and the parties do not intend that it or any part of it be binding.  It serves only as a record of the parties' separate intentions pending possible execution of a Collaboration Agreement as contemplated by clause 2.
Nothing in this MOU will oblige a party to or will constitute a representation by either party that it will enter into a Collaboration Agreement with the other party or will conduct any Project.
This MOU will be governed by and construed in accordance with the law in force in the State of Victoria and the Courts of Victoria will have jurisdiction in respect of all matters arising under the terms of this MOU.

