The Licensor shall give the Licensee the number of copies of the Work in CD-Rom format as is specified in Section E of the Schedule.
The Work may not be used by the Licensee except for the purposes of tertiary education.  The Licensee must not, or permit another person to, copy, sell, licence or mortgage the Work for any reason whatsoever.  Without limiting any other remedy available to the Licensor, a breach of this Clause 4 will entitle the Licensor to equitable relief against the Licensee, including injunctive relief.  

The fee shall be paid in full by the Licensee to the Licensor on the execution of this Agreement and in such manner and currency as is specified in the Special Conditions. 

Subject to Clause 6.1(b) but without limiting Clause 6.3, the Licensor makes no representation that the use of the Work will not infringe any third person's rights, including, without limitation, any third person's patent rights or copyright. 
The Licensor warrants that as at the date of this Agreement it is not aware that the Licensee's use of the Work in accordance with this Agreement will infringe any third person's rights. 
The Licensee acknowledges that the Work is supplied "as is" and that the Licensor has not made and that no person acting on behalf of the Licensor has made, any representation as to the Work's merchantability or suitability for any particular purpose or any representation that the Work is error free or that it is free from any "worm", "virus", "back door" or any computer software routine intended or designed to disable, damage, erase, disrupt or impair the normal operation of the Work or any other software or data on the Licensee's computer systems.

The Licensee shall not modify the Work or merge all or any part of the Work with other programs or reverse engineer the Work without the Licensor's consent.
The Licensee indemnifies and holds harmless the Licensor against any liability incurred if the said modifications infringe the intellectual property rights of a third person.
The Work as modified remains the property of the Licensor.
The Licence shall continue to apply to the Work as modified.

For the purpose of this agreement, the following are Terminating Events -
the breach or threatened breach by either party of any of its material obligations under this agreement, including any obligation of the Licensee to pay money to the Licensor; and
the appointment of any type of insolvency administrator in respect of the Licensee; or the entry or proposed entry by the Licensee into any scheme, composition or arrangement with any of its creditors.

The Licence may be terminated immediately on the happening of a Terminating Event at the option of the affected party.
Neither party shall be liable for the consequences of an occurrence of any event beyond its reasonable control. 

Each party agrees to do all things and execute all deeds, instruments, transfers or other documents as may be necessary or desirable to give full effect to the provisions of this Agreement and the transactions contemplated by it. 

Each party shall bear its own costs arising out of the negotiation, preparation and execution of this Agreement. 
All stamp duty and other taxes that may be payable on or in connection with this Agreement or the Work shall be paid by the Licensee (other than tax payable to the Commonwealth of Australia by the Licensor on any net income the Licensor may receive under this Agreement). 
This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts.  All counterparts together will be taken to constitute one instrument. 
