The term of this Agreement commences upon execution by both parties being the date indicated at the front of this Agreement and continues until all obligations have been fulfilled under this Agreement, unless terminated earlier in accordance with this Agreement. 
The Organisation must commence the Activity [choose the most appropriate no later than / on] [insert Activity Start Date] and must complete the Activity by [insert Activity Completion Date]. 

For the purpose of serving notices to either Party of this Agreement, a notice must be in writing and shall be treated as having been duly given and received:
when delivered (if left at that Party's address);
on the third Business Day after posting (if sent by pre-paid mail); or
on the Business Day of transmission (if given by facsimile and sent to the facsimile receiver number of that Party and no intimation having been received that the notice had not been received, whether that intimation comes from that Party or from the operation of facsimile machinery or otherwise).

For the purposes of this Agreement, the address of a Party is the address set out below or another address of which that Party may give notice in writing to the other Party:
The Organisation must carry out the Activity in accordance with the Activity Proposal and the terms and conditions of this Deed.
The Organisation must advise AusAID immediately of any difficulties or delays in implementation of the Activity.
The Organisation shall acknowledge in writing to AusAID receipt of the Funds immediately on its receipt.
The Funds and any interest earned or exchange rate gains must be used diligently and for the sole purpose of the Activity outlined in Schedule 1 of this Agreement. Any interest earned or exchange rate gains made on the Funds must only be expended on the Activity. 
The Organisation acknowledges that Funds provided by AusAID to the Organisation for this Activity does not entitle the Organisation to any other or further funding. 
The Organisation shall acknowledge AusAID funding assistance provided under this Deed where appropriate and advise AusAID of matters relating to any publicity and media relations, prior to any publication or media release.
The Organisation must not represent itself and must ensure that its volunteers, employees, agents and sub-contractors participating in the Activity do not represent themselves as being employees, partners or agents of the Commonwealth of Australia.
The Organisation is responsible for the security of all of its personnel (including personnel either employed by the Organisation or engaged by the Organisation on a sub-contract basis or agents or volunteers of the Organisation engaged in the provision of the Activity) and for taking-out and maintaining all appropriate insurances.
The Organisation must not assign its interest in this Agreement without first obtaining the consent in writing of AusAID. 
No delay, neglect or forbearance by either Party in enforcing against the other any term or condition of this Agreement shall be deemed to be a waiver or in any way prejudice any right of that Party.
This Agreement is governed by, and is to be construed in accordance with, the law of the Australian Capital Territory and the Parties submit to the exclusive jurisdiction of the courts of the Australian Capital Territory and any court hearing appeals from those courts. 

AusAID or the Organisation may propose amendments to this Agreement at any time for the purpose of improving the delivery of the Activity, the efficiency, cost-effectiveness and development impact of the Activity. 
Changes to this Agreement (including to Schedule 1 and any annexes) shall only be effected if agreed in writing and signed by both Parties in the form of a Deed of Amendment.

The Organisation must not use the Funds to acquire any asset, apart from those detailed in the Activity Proposal without obtaining AusAID's prior written approval. Subject to the requirements of this clause, the Organisation shall own the assets acquired with the Funds unless specified otherwise in the Activity Proposal. 
If the Funds are being used to procure goods, the Organisation must ensure in its procurement of the goods that:
the goods to be procured are of a satisfactory quality;
the goods shall be delivered in good order and condition and in accordance with the Activity timetable;
the price paid for goods procured represents value for money;
there is open and effective competition in the purchasing process to the extent practicable; and
a professional approach is reflected in the purchasing process including ethical behaviour and fair dealing. 

If the Funds are being used to procure goods, the Organisation must maintain a Register of Activity Assets. The Register shall record non-consumable items funded under this Agreement or supplied by AusAID to the Activity which have a value of AUD1,000 (or equivalent) or more. In addition non-consumable items of a portable and attractive nature with a value of less than AUD1,000 (or equivalent) shall also be recorded. The Register shall show date of receipt of the asset at the Activity site, the cost, the purchase/payment document date and reference number, a description and identification number, and the location of the asset. Disposal or write-off of AusAID funded or provided assets shall be as agreed in writing by AusAID. The Register and other relevant documents such as import papers and manufacturers' warranties relating to the assets shall be available for audit as required by AusAID. The Register shall be reconciled with Activity assets at least every twelve months and the results of that reconciliation included in the Annual Reports required in clause titled 'Reports' in this agreement.  

The Organisation must, if required by AusAID, permit AusAID to monitor and/or evaluate the Activity and/or use of the Funds. AusAID shall give the Organisation at least two (2) weeks notice of its intentions prior to commencing such a review. In that event, the Organisation must cooperate fully with any request for assistance pursuant to any such study. 

The Organisation must at all times indemnify AusAID, its employees, agents and contractors (except the Organisation) ("those indemnified") from and against any loss or liability whatsoever suffered by those indemnified or arising from any claim, suit, demand, action or proceeding by any person against any of those indemnified where such loss or liability was caused or contributed to in any way by any wilfully wrongful, unlawful or negligent act or omission of the Organisation, or any of the Organisation's personnel in connection with this Agreement.
The Organisation agrees that AusAID may enforce the indemnity in favour of the persons specified in Clause 8.1 above for the benefit of each of such persons in the name of AusAID or of such persons.
The indemnity in this Clause 8 is reduced to the extent that the loss or liability is directly caused by AusAID, its employees, agents or contractors (except the Organisation), as substantiated by the Organisation.
This indemnity shall survive termination or expiration of this Agreement.

The title to all intellectual property rights in or in relation to Agreement Material created during the course of the Activity shall vest in AusAID upon its creation. AusAID shall grant to the Organisation a world-wide, revocable, non-exclusive, royalty-free licence to use the material. 
Clause 9.1 does not affect the ownership of intellectual property in any Prior Material incorporated into the Agreement Material, but the Organisation grants to AusAID a permanent, irrevocable, royalty-free worldwide, non-exclusive licence to use, reproduce, adapt and otherwise exploit such Prior Material in conjunction with the Agreement Material. The licence granted under this Clause 9.2 includes the right of AusAID to sub-licence any of its employees, agents or contractors to use, reproduce, adapt and otherwise exploit the Prior Material incorporated into the Agreement Material for the purposes of performing functions, responsibilities, activities or services for, or on behalf of, AusAID.

The Organisation and its personnel must have regard to and comply with, relevant and applicable laws, guidelines, regulations and policies, including those in Australia and in the Partner Country. A list, as amended from time to time, of Australian laws and guidelines that may apply to the delivery of developmental aid to foreign countries can be found on the AusAID website: http://www.ausaid.gov.au/business/contracting.cfm. This list is not exhaustive and is provided for information only. The provision of this list does not relieve the Organisation from complying with the obligations contained in this clause headed 'Compliance with Laws, Guidelines and Policies'.
The Organisation must comply with:
AusAID's Child protection policy. (http://www.ausaid.gov.au/publications/pubs.cfm?Type=PubPolicyDocuments) and particularly the child protection compliance standards at Attachment 1 to the policy. AusAID may audit the Organisation's compliance with AusAID's Child protection policy and child protection compliance standards. The Organisation must participate cooperatively in any reviews conducted by AusAID;
The strategy 'Development for All: Towards a Disability-Inclusive Australian Aid Program 2009-2014' (http://www.ausaid.gov.au/publications/pdf/FINAL%20AusAID_Disability%20for%20All.pdf), and in particular the strategy's six guiding principles.

The Organisation must use its best endeavours to ensure:
that individuals or organisations involved in implementing the Activity are in no way linked, directly or indirectly, to organisations and individuals associated with terrorism; and 
that Funds provided under this Agreement are not used in any way to provide direct or indirect support or resources to organisations and individuals associated with terrorism.
If, during the course of this Agreement, the Organisation discovers any link whatsoever with any organisation or individual listed on a Relevant List it must inform AusAID immediately. 
If, during the course of this Agreement, the Organisation is listed on a World Bank List or Similar List it must inform AusAID immediately. 

The Organisation agrees that: 
The Organisation and its employees, agents, representatives or its subcontractors must not engage in any Fraudulent Activity. The Organisation is responsible for preventing and detecting Fraud.
The Organisation must report in writing within five (5) working days to AusAID any detected, suspected, or attempted Fraudulent Activity involving the Activity. AusAID may direct the Organisation to investigate the alleged Fraud and the Organisation must undertake an investigation at the Organisation's cost and in accordance with any directions or standards required by AusAID.
Following the conclusion of any investigation which identifies acts of a Fraudulent nature, the Organisation shall:
make every effort to recover any AusAID Funds, the subject of Fraudulent Activity;
refer the matter to the relevant police or other authorities responsible for prosecution of Fraudulent Activity; and 
be liable for the repayment of any Funds amounts misappropriated by the Organisation, its agents, representatives or subcontractors.
The obligations of the Organisation under paragraphs (b) and (c) above shall survive the expiration of this Agreement.
The Organisation warrants that the Organisation shall not make or cause to be made, nor shall the Organisation receive or seek to receive, any offer, gift or payment, consideration or benefit of any kind, which would or could be construed as an illegal or corrupt practice, either directly or indirectly to any party, as an inducement or reward in relation to the execution of this Agreement. In addition, the Organisation shall not bribe public officials and shall ensure that its delivery organisations comply with this provision. Any breach of this clause shall be grounds for immediate termination of this Agreement by notice from AusAID. 

If the Organisation:
becomes, or AusAID considers there is a reasonable prospect of the Organisation becoming bankrupt, insolvent, deregistered or no longer able to undertake the Activity to a standard acceptable to AusAID; 
makes an assignment of its estate for the benefit of creditors or enters into any arrangement or composition with its creditors;
fails to commence, or in the opinion of AusAID, fails to make satisfactory progress in carrying out the Activity and such failure has not been remedied within the time specified in a written request from AusAID to remedy the failure; 
assigns its interest in this Agreement without the consent in writing of AusAID; 
is, during the term of this Agreement, listed on a World Bank List, Relevant List or Similar List; or
breaches any term of this Agreement and such breach has not been remedied within the time stipulated in a written request notice from AusAID to remedy the breach;
then in every such case AusAID shall be entitled to terminate this Agreement forthwith but without prejudice to any of its other rights.

In addition, either Party may terminate this Agreement by giving to the other a notice to terminate in writing stating the reasons for termination. 
AusAID may terminate this Agreement immediately by notice in writing to the Organisation if the Organisation breaches any of its obligations under Clause 10.
In the event of any termination, the Organisation must provide an Independently Audited statement of expenditure of the Funds within thirty (30) days of the date of the notice to terminate, signed by the head of the Organisation, and return any uncommitted unspent Funds to AusAID.
In the event that a notice to terminate is given by either Party the Organisation must:
immediately and forthwith do everything possible to prevent and mitigate all losses, costs and expenses arising in consequence of the termination of this Agreement and shall in a prompt and orderly manner cease expenditure of any uncommitted Funds for the Activity; and
refund any uncommitted part of any tranche or Funds already paid by AusAID, together with any uncommitted or unspent interest, within thirty (30) days of the date of the notice to terminate.

In the event that a notice to terminate is given by either party AusAID shall not be liable to pay compensation in an amount which, in addition to any amounts paid or due or becoming due to the Organisation under this Agreement, together would exceed the amount of the total financial limitation of this Agreement, as specified in clause headed 'Funds and Payment'. 

The bank account used by the Organisation must be in the name of the Organisation and must not be a personal bank account.
The Organisation must maintain a sound administrative and financial system capable of verifying all statements of acquittal. In addition, the Organisation must:
keep proper and detailed accounts, records and assets registers along with adequate Activity management records providing clear audit trails in relation to expenditure under this Agreement;
afford adequate facilities for audit and inspection of the financial records referred to in this Agreement by AusAID and its authorised representatives at all reasonable times and allow copies and extracts to be taken; 
the accounts and records must be held by the Organisation for the term of this Agreement and for a period of seven (7) years from the date of expiry or termination of this Agreement; 
if requested by AusAID, provide an acquittal, certified by the senior financial officer or the head of the Organisation, of Funds spent to date against the budget in the Activity Proposal; and
if reasonably requested by AusAID, provide an Independently Audited statement of Activity expenditure by an auditor nominated by AusAID at no cost to AusAID.


AusAID may disclose matters relating to this Agreement, including this Agreement, and other relevant information, except where such information may breach the Privacy Act 1988 (Cth), to Commonwealth governmental departments and agencies, Commonwealth Ministers and Parliamentary Secretaries, and to the Commonwealth Parliament, including responding to requests for information from Parliamentary committees or inquiries. This clause shall survive termination or expiration of this Agreement

Within thirty (30) days of completion of the Activity the Organisation shall submit a final report which provides a brief outline of the Activity and in more detail covers key outcomes compared with objectives, development impact, sustainability and lessons learned.
Attached to this report will be a statement acquitting all Funds ('final Funds acquittal'). The statement must acquit the Funds against the budget referred to in the Activity Proposal and must be signed by the senior financial officer or the head of the Organisation, indicating that the Funds have been spent in accordance with the terms of this Agreement. Any unspent Funds or interest must be repaid to AusAID with the final report and final Funds acquittal. The Funds acquittal must include details of any interest earned on the Funds. The final Funds acquittal acquitting all Funds shall be subject to the internal and external auditing procedures laid down in the rules and regulations applicable to the Organisation and must also be Independently Audited and certified. The cost of an independent external audit required by this clause may be payable from the Funds. 
The final report and attached statement acquitting all Funds should be sent to: 
Manager, Community Engagement, NGOs and Community Engagement section
Australian Agency for International Development
GPO Box 887
CANBERRA  ACT  2601  AUSTRALIA

