The Contributor at the request of the Manager has agreed from time to time in its discretion to provide the Custodian with copies of the Contributor's privately funded airborne geophysical datasets ("AGS Datasets") to assist in the establishment of a centralised airborne geophysical database ("MAGNet Database") to be accessible to purchasers under the terms and conditions (including the price) set forth in this Agreement.

The Manager at the request of the Custodian and with the knowledge and agreement of the Contributor shall be responsible for the establishment of MAGNet Database and the ongoing management of the MAGNet Database and the Manager will take all reasonable steps to gather other available privately-funded airborne geophysical data for inclusion in the MAGNet Database and to re-process, compile, catalogue and display as images and maps all such data and to make reprocessed data available for sale and to prepare a comprehensive description of each data set.

The Contributor, the Custodian and the Manager all acknowledge that the AGS Datasets will be held by the Custodian in trust for the Contributor but subject always to the terms of this Agreement.

Delivery of AGS Datasets
At any time, from time to time, after the date of this Agreement, the Contributor may provide the Custodian with the AGS Datasets.  The data delivery shall conform where possible to the specification outlined in Attachment 3.  Contribution of the survey data will be on a voluntary, survey-by-survey basis, and may at the discretion of the Contributor include currently confidential data.  All survey data delivered to the Custodian will be accompanied by a statement of ownership in the form set out in Attachment 4.

The manager shall incorporate all AGS Datasets into the MAGNet Database, unless the contributor otherwise agrees in writing..

The Contributor will not sell its own AGS Datasets through any other organised Database facility the duration of this Agreement.  This clause shall not preclude the Contributor from providing copies of its own Datasets to any other participant in the Robe River Iron Associates Joint Venture or to any Related body Corporate (as the term is defined in the Corporations Law) or to other companies for the purposes of negotiating bona fides joint venture agreements with these companies.

The Contributor shall indemnify and keep indemnified the Custodian and the Manager and each of them against any actions, suits, claims, demands, proceedings, losses and all liability for special, incidental, or consequential damages (including loss of profit) incurred by them should it be established that the Contributor is not the owner of the intellectual property in the AGS Datasets.

The parties acknowledge and agree that the Contributor makes no representations and gives no warranty whatsoever relating to the accuracy, completeness or correctness of any of the AGS Datasets and (without limitation) does not warrant that:
the Datasets are or will be free from error
the Datasets are or will be suitable for the Manager's purpose.

The Contributor shall have no liability to the manager or the Custodian for or in respect of any loss or damage to which may be suffered or incurred or otherwise arise out of or in connection with the use or the provision of the AGS Datasets or any error, omission, inaccuracy or fault in the Datasets and the manager and the Custodian release the Contributor from any such liabilty which but for this clause may have otherwise existed or arisen.

The Contributor grants to the Manager an exclusive licence:-

to use the AGS Datasets for the purpose of generating derived products including without limitation, digital profile data, gridded data, image data maps and reports for sale to purchasers (the "Derived Products") on the condition that the Derived Products will be added to and form part of the AGS Database. Full particulars of  Derived Products generated from the AGS Datasets will be notified by the Manager to the Contributor as soon as reasonably practical after their completion.
to sell copies of the AGS Datasets to third parties ("purchasers")
to sell Derived Products to third parties who have purchased copies of the AGS Datasets from which those Derived Products have been generated.

The Contributor warrants that it has the requisite legal capacity to grant such an exclusive licence.

All sales by the Manager pursuant to paragraphs (b) and (c) above shall be made as the Manager as principal and on terms and conditions under which the Contributor is satisfied (in its discretion) that no liability may attach directly or indirectly to the Contributor. Full particulars of any sale by the Manager pursuant to paragraph (b) above, including the terms and conditions of the sale, shall be notified by the Manager to the Contributor as soon as reasonably practicable after the date of sale.

The copyrights of all products derived from the MAGNet Database during the terms of this Agreement will remain solely with the Manager the earlier of the date of termination of this Agreement and until midnight on 31 December 2100.

The Manager will for the benefit of the Contributor and the Manager at the Manager's own cost:-
perform the data processing, presentation and management tasks outlined in Attachment 1 on the AGS Datasets.
sell data and derived products from the MAGNet Database at the prescribed rate set out in Attachment 2 and generally promote the MAGNet Database to the mineral exploration industry. The manager shall not in any promotional or sales activity refer to the Contributor or this Agreement unless on each occasion reference is to be made, the prior written consent of the Contributor is obtained.
manage the sale of data and products derived from the MAGNet Database, and 
collect payment from the sale of data and products derived from the MAGNet Database, and
account quarterly to the Contributor for the moneys collected from sales, and

pay royalties to the Contributor quarterly calculated in the manner prescribed in Attachment 2.

Supervision and the Provision of Services

take responsibility for the overall supervision of the establishment of the MAGNet Database and performance of MAGNet Database as a commercial enterprise.  To this end, the Manager will at its expense provide:-
All necessary computer processing, duplicating, printing, office accommodation and other facilities for the project.
Those persons named in Attachment 5 or such other persons nominated by the Manager from time to time of equal standing to supervise the establishment and the working of the MAGNet Database and the marketing of data out of the MAGNet Database.
Suitably qualified geophysicists and geophysical data processing staff.
Consultants and other technical staff for digitising maps and secretarial staff as and when needed.

use its best endeavours to ensure the accuracy of the work performed by the Manager under this Agreement without warranting that:-
its work will be without error, and
it will be responsible for any loss resulting from any error.

provide the Contributor, at least half yearly, with an index of the airborne geophysical datasets held in the MAGNet Database.
use its best endeavour to broaden the information of the MAGNet Database by adding to the MAGNet Database, where allowed by law, open-file data held by or on behalf of the various State Governments in Australia.

The Contributor shall pay the cost of shipping the AGS Datasets to the Manager and the Contributor shall bear the risk of loss or damage to such data until received by the Manager.

The Contributor shall provide the Manager with "COPIES ONLY" of the AGS Datasets and shall notify the Manager's collection centre (see Attachment 3) before the AGS Datasets are dispatched.  It is for the Contributor to ensure that no irreplaceable AGS Datasets are dispatched without the prior agreement of the Manager and without the appropriate insurance cover first being taken out by the Contributor.

The Manager shall use due care in the handling and the storage of the AGS Datasets provided by the Contributor to the Manager and shall take  all reasonable steps to preserve that data by copying that data on media suitable for long-term storage.

The Manager shall exercise due care of the Contributor's AGS Datasets whilst they are in the Manager's possession and shall take reasonable steps to preserve the data and in the absence of wilful negligence neither the Custodian or the Manager will be liable for loss, theft, damage or destruction of that data.

Subject to the licence granted to the Manager by the Contributor the AGS Datasets shall at all times remain the property of the Contributor.

Subject to the payment of royalties to the Contributor products derived from the AGS Datasets shall be and shall remain the sole property of the Manager for the duration of this Agreement.

The Custodian shall have no claim to any royalty or any fee in relation to its custodial role under this Agreement on the understanding that the Manager will honour all obligations imposed on the Manager under this Agreement.

The Manager is specifically authorised by this Agreement to use the AGS Datasets and such use will not constitute a breach of right of the Contributor in the AGS Datasets or otherwise.  Any aeromagnetic data submitted in digital format by the Contributor may be used by the Manager in the provision of digital data products or map products.  Location of flight lines along which data sets are collected will be treated as non-confidential.
The Manager warrants that it will use the AGS Datasets for those purposes specifically authorised by this Agreement and not otherwise.  The Manager shall at the request of the Contributor deliver to the Contributor the irrevocable undertaking of both its consultants, Geoimage Pty Ltd ACN 010 840 294 and Pitt Research Pty Ltd ACN 070 275 179 to use the AGS Datasets for no purpose other than that envisaged by this Agreement.
Unless otherwise provided in this Agreement, purchasers shall be permitted to use all final products for their internal use only, in any way they so wish.

Nothing in this Agreement shall prevent disclosure by either the Contributor or by any purchaser when required by law or when disclosure is made to a data processing centre or professional consultant retained by such a party, provided that such centre or consultant undertakes in writing to keep the information strictly confidential.

No party to this Agreement shall assign, mortgage or otherwise deal with or encumber its right and entitlement under this Agreement without the written consent of the other Parties to the Agreement.

All notices which are required to be given under the Agreement shall be in writing and shall be:
delivered to the other party personally; or
sent by facsimile to the facsimile number of the other party, in which case notice shall be deemed to have been received on the receipt of confirmation from the answering machine; or 
sent by electronic mail embedded or as an attachment, in which case notice shall be deemed to have been received on confirmation from the mail server.
forwarded by registered mail to the address of the other party, in which case notice shall be deemed to have been received 48 hours after it was posted.

Addresses and facsimile numbers of the Parties to the Agreement, shall be as specified in Attachment 5, or as otherwise notified in writing during the currency of the Agreement.

The Contributor shall have the right by giving 28 days notice in writing to terminate the licence granted to the Manager under this Agreement should the Manager fail:-

to pay royalties by the due date, or

to report as required

or should the Manager otherwise breach any material obligation on its part to be performed under the Agreement.
The Contributor may in any event terminate the licence granted to the Manager by this Agreement and this Agreement at any time, with or without cause, by giving two months notice in writing to the Manager and the Custodian.

The Manager will have the right to terminate this Agreement if:
the granting of the licence to the Manager under this Agreement  breaches any intellectual property rights of a third party; or
the Manager in the exercise of its absolute discretion forms the view that the establishment and operation of the MAGNet Database is no longer commercially viable but only after the Manager shall have given the Contributor three (3) months notice of its intention to terminate the Agreement for this reason.

Should any Parties to this Agreement become insolvent and/or commit an act of bankruptcy then, the other Parties or anyone of them shall have the right to terminate this Agreement forthwith by notice in writing to the other Parties whereupon all the rights and entitlements of the Parties save and except for any accrued right and or entitlement shall be at an end.

The proper law of this Agreement is the law of the State of Western Australia and the rights of the parties in and to this Agreement and the construction and effect of each and every provision hereof shall be subject to those laws.

Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed as placing the parties in the relationship of partners or co-joint venturers or principal and agent

The Manager shall perform the following tasks on the multi-client datasets incorporated into the MAGNet Database.

These products shall be specific to each survey and shall include:


The final processed data will be stored on CD-ROM.  Two copies will be made and one copy will be stored off-site in a secure facility.  The physical storing of the data shall be determined from time to time by the Custodian in connection with the Manager and each contribution to the MAGNet Database

Issues of data quality relate to the original acquisition and processing of the survey, and are not the responsibility of the Manager.

A QA system will be devised to ensure data deliveries conform to industry standards, and to an agreed flat ASCII format.

No liability for data errors will be accepted by the database managers.  Purchasers of the data will sign a licence agreement to this effect at the time of sale.

Data and map products will be available for sale to the whole mineral exploration industry.  The sell rate and Royalty will be calculated as follows:-
Royalties will be payable on a quarterly basis, with payments being due on or before 31st March, 30th June, 30th September and 31st December.  A statement of data sold from the scheme, cross-referenced to survey details, will be issued quarterly on the 31st March, 30th June, 30 September and 31st December.  

No entry fees or up-front payments are required from any purchaser.
