The candidate agrees to train with the supervising surveyor in the profession of land surveying for a period of (___ normally two years___) commencing on (___date___).

The supervising surveyor will instruct the candidate in the profession of land surveying or provide opportunities for the candidate to be instructed.

The supervising surveyor will permit the candidate to attend such lectures and examinations as may necessary or required for their instruction in the profession of land surveying.

The period of training shall include the periods of experience required by the Surveyors Regulations 2003, viz:
A minimum of 2 years supervised experience, of which a minimum of 12 months is in Tasmania;
A minimum of 12 months post-graduation experience, of which a minimum of 6 months is in Tasmania;
A minimum of 18 months on cadastral boundary definition, of which a minimum of 6 months is in Tasmania.

It is expected that the candidate will be competent in all of the preceding subjects, 5.1 to 5.21, at the time of completion of the professional training agreement.


It is expected that the candidate will be aware or familiar with the following subjects, 5.22 to 5.24, at the time of completion of the professional training agreement, and that following accreditation will work in a structure with limited guidance until competent in those subjects.

While the above subjects give a basic training that will allow the registered land surveyor to practise effectively in a wide range of work; there are a number of other subjects which will either allow more efficient work in some situations or will allow specialised or unusual jobs to be carried out.  It is recommended that some such subjects be covered by each candidate - and credit will be given for such subjects.


The surveyor is solely responsible for surveys carried out under his/her supervision, and all surveyors should exercise a standard of supervision that will ensure that surveys reflects their professional responsibilities and comply with relevant statutes.

The extent of supervision will vary according to the experience and skill and ethics of the candidate.  The recommended level of supervision is as follows:-

The supervisor should fully brief the candidate on the purpose and details of the survey before the candidate commences involvement in that survey,

The supervisor should discuss all aspects of the survey with the candidate at the completion of the work,

Early in the training period the supervising surveyor should always accompany the candidate on site, until the candidate demonstrates an ability to act as team leader for some parts of the survey.   From that time onwards the frequency of on site supervision can be reduced, but-
the supervisor should be present on sufficient occasions during each survey to ensure that the candidate's problems are solved expeditiously,
the supervisor should inspect the marking and physical aspects of the survey, and the field records, closes, re-establishment etc on its completion, and
the supervisor should effect sufficient angular and linear checks of the surveys to be satisfied with the standard and accuracy of the candidate's work.

Just before the successful completion of the training agreement it is acceptable for the supervision of the candidate to be reduced for the specific purpose of the further professional development of the candidate's work attitude and ethics.

If the supervising surveyor wishes to lessen supervision (under guideline 6.4), the supervisor should advise the Board in writing that the candidate is within three months of sitting final examinations and will be receiving only off-site supervision.		

The supervising surveyor will still be wholly responsible for the correctness of the surveys.

It is recommended that in the period of off-site supervision:-
in the cases of simple jobs, the supervising surveyor should inspect the field record of each job, and
in other cases the candidate should prepare a short survey report describing important aspects of each survey (particularly the re-establishment) and
that this record be retained by the supervising surveyor and forms part of the off-site supervision.  These reports could form part of the documentation presented to the Board supporting the candidate's application for registration as a land surveyor.

Acceptance of only off-site supervision is limited to the final period of a candidate's training.  It is never to be extended to a person who is not under a training agreement, no matter how extensive that person's experience.

Supervisors should act within the confines and the spirit of the certificate signed in each fieldbook (namely, "under my own personal supervision, inspection and field check") lodged during the period of a Professional Training Agreement.  The fact that the supervisor has signed the plan and fieldbook indicates satisfaction as to the accuracy of the survey, that the survey is in accordance with the regulations, and an acceptance of full responsibility for the survey.

The professional training of a candidate is an important and demanding role, not one to be undertaken lightly or for the wrong reasons.  The responsibilities of the surveyor include,:-
to provide the range of experience necessary for the candidate's development,
to provide the tuition and guidance necessary for the candidate's development (both technical and professional),
to be wholly responsible for the correct performance of jobs by the candidate,
to treat the candidate's development as of primary importance and not just an ancillary activity to the running of the firm or the correct completion of surveys,
to encourage the candidate's participation in continuing professional development courses.	
to be responsible for effective feedback to the candidate on every job,
to report to the Board on a regular basis on the progress of the candidate's training.  (Refer to guideline 9).
to be responsible for the decision to put the candidate forward for examination.  The Board must depend heavily on the surveyor's opinion as to the candidate's readiness,
 	
The Professional Training Agreement should state the extent of the supervisor's responsibility (if any is accepted) for arranging or participating in training (of a stated nature) that is not available within the supervisor's firm.  To clarify the extent or basis of the agreement it is beneficial for it to list the scope of work normally done by the supervisor, and to list any necessary types of work which the supervisor does not do.

It is recognised that the supervisor is not committed to successfully complete the candidate's development within any time frame, even though a time schedule is included in the agreement.  The length of time necessary to complete the training is dependant on the ability and endeavours of the candidate.

Fundamental and general educational matters (including familiarity with Acts, regulations, guidelines and manuals) should not be neglected by the candidate.
The length of elapsed time before accreditation is expected to be heavily dependant on the amount of personal time that the candidate is prepared to contribute during (and before) the Training Agreement.
The candidate is responsible for ensuring that sufficient time is spent on continuing professional development.
The candidate is responsible for keeping records of the training received and for informing the supervisor of any slippage of time.

To clarify the basis for the agreement (and to assist in preparing an achievable time schedule) it is beneficial for the agreement to include a realistic description of the candidate's competencies, experience and knowledge before entering the agreement.

The following records should be maintained.  The maintenance of these records will help the supervising surveyor and the candidate to identify any deficiencies in the training program, and will assist with the preparation of reports to the Board (Forms 1 and 2 attached).

Each supervisor who has undertaken in-full or in-part a component of a candidate's training is required to document the categories of training and the period during which it was undertaken.  A certificate (Form 1) to that effect is required to be signed after each period.

The period and categories of training must aggregate to at least the minimum requirement set out in the Board approved agreement.

The Supervising Surveyor shall provide reports to the Board initially on a three (3) monthly basis for the first two (2) reports and thereafter on a six (6) monthly basis, covering the level of skill and knowledge of the candidate, such that the degree and complexity of work and responsibilities can be analysed.  See Form 1 attached.

The Board will monitor the progress through the reports, and where necessary provide counselling and assistance to ensure appropriate training opportunities are provided to the candidate and support is available to the Supervising Surveyor.

A statutory declaration is required to be signed by the supervisor in the agreement, testifying that in his/her opinion, the candidate is capable of successfully progressing to examination and operating as a registered land surveyor in their own right.  See Form 2)

The supervisor decides when a candidate has the all-round skills and knowledge to result in a successful completion of the Board's examination.  There will always be personal and commercial pressures that may influence the timing of that decision.  The focus must however always be on the capability of the candidate to perform as a registed surveyor in their own right.

The candidate must certify that the examination projects are their own work.  Refer to schedule 3 of the Regulations and the Guidelines for Candidates ....for more information.

The supervisor should ensure that the candidate is given the best possible support to ensure a successful result at the Board's examination.  This should include appropriate access to equipment and staff for examination surveys.

The supervising surveyor should consider work allocation when the candidate is undertaking surveys for examination, to ensure the candidate has adequate time and opportunitiy.

If circumstances arise such that the candidate's training cannot be optimally managed by the supervising surveyor, then the supervising surveyor should arrange transfer of the professional training agreement, or in extreme cases its suspension or termination.  This should be undertaken in consultation with the Board.


It is prudent for both parties to include in the Professional Training Agreement a clause that outlines the circumstances and conditions relating to the termination of the agreement. The Board suggests that the provisions of paragraphs 13 & 14 above be fully considered before implementing such termination. The Board must be notified of the termination of an agreement. The notification should include evidence that both parties concur with the termination. The Board should be provided with a Certificate of Service for its records.



