This agreement will remain in force for the term specified in Schedule 1.
During the Term, the Art Centre will make a reasonable effort to provide and meet the costs of the following services as appropriate to promote the Artist and the Artwork:
a apply for grants and funding for the professional development of the artists associated with the Art Centre and provide the Artist with opportunities under those funding arrangements;

The Art Centre may provide Artworks to other art centres or galleries (Other Gallery) on a consignment basis provided that the commission retained by the Other Gallery does not exceed the rate specified in Schedule 1.

During the Term, the Artist must:
deal with the Art Centre in relation to all Art Dealings and any matter governed by this agreement on the basis specified in Schedule 1; 
keep the Art Centre informed as to the Artist's current contact and payment details including address, telephone numbers and email address; and 
allow the Art Centre to deduct the Art Centre's Commission for any Sale.

Where the relationship specified in Schedule 1 is exclusive, the Artist must:
inform the Art Centre as soon as possible after Artwork has been created and deliver the Artwork to the Art Centre; 
not enter into any similar agreement, understanding or arrangement with any other person or entity; 
not sell or offer to sell any of the Artwork to any other person or entity other than the Art Centre, either directly or indirectly, whether for money, gifts or in return for anything else; 
not accept any offer to sell any Artwork to any other person or entity other than Art Centre, either directly or indirectly, whether for money, gifts or in return for anything else; 
immediately stop, and not resume, any discussions that the Artist may have commenced with any other person or entity other than Art Centre concerning any matter governed by this agreement; and
promptly notify the Art Centre of any other person or entity who offers to acquire, directly or indirectly, any Artwork, either for themselves or on behalf of a third party.

Upon receipt of money from any Sale of Artwork, the Art Centre must retain the Art Centre's Commission and pay the Artist's Payment to the Artist by cheque or any other method notified to the Art Centre within the period specified in Schedule 1.
The Art Centre must pay interest on late Artist's Payments on the basis stated in Schedule 1.

The parties agree that all amounts payable under this agreement are exclusive of Goods and Services Tax (GST). 
If a party is liable to pay GST in respect of any good or service supplied under this agreement, that party will invoice the other party for the GST amount payable for the good or service and will ensure that the invoice is a GST compliant invoice. 
The party who receives the GST compliant invoice must pay the amount of GST invoiced at the same time as the amount payable under this agreement.

The Art Centre must maintain accurate books and records in relation to Sales of Artwork and any consignment arrangements in relation to Artwork. 
Within 14 calendar days of the Artist's request, the Art Centre will make all books and records available to the Artist or the Artist's authorised representative during the normal business hours of the Art Centre. If any discrepancy is established in favour of the Artist upon examination of the books and records, the Art Centre must pay the Artist the costs of the examination and the deficit amount within 14 calendar days.

The Artist owns all Intellectual Property in the Artworks.
The Art Centre will manage the Artist's Intellectual Property on behalf of the Artist as specified in Schedule 1.

To the extent allowed by law, at the time of selling Artwork, the Art Centre must use all reasonable efforts to obtain and record the contact details of the purchaser and to provide these details to the Artist upon request by the Artist. 

If an Artwork embodies traditional ritual Indigenous knowledge, the Art Centre must display the notice set out in Schedule 1 in a reasonably prominent position with the Artwork.

Each party must act reasonably and in good faith in all dealings with the other party and must avoid any conflict of interest between its own interests and the interests of the other party. 

Either party may terminate this agreement without the need to give any reasons by giving the other party 3 months written notice that the agreement is to be terminated.

If a party commits a breach of this agreement, the other party must notify the party in breach of the breach in writing. The party in breach must remedy the breach within 28 calendar days of the notice (Notice Period). If the breach is not remedied at the expiry of the Notice Period, the party who gave the notice may terminate this agreement immediately by written notice. If an exhibition of any Artwork commences during the Notice Period, termination will take effect from the date of the close of the exhibition.

The agreement automatically ends:
a upon the death of the Artist;
if the Art Centre becomes insolvent, is declared bankrupt, has a liquidator appointed or goes into administration, voluntary or otherwise.

Upon the death of the Artist, all unsold Artwork held by the Art Centre must immediately be withdrawn from sale and stored securely pending consultation with the Artist's family as to the appropriate time when the Artworks may be offered for sale again. 

Subject to clause 13.4, upon termination or expiry of this agreement:
the Art Centre may exhibit and sell the Artwork in its possession, including through any Other Gallery, and retain its Commission; 
all Artist's Payments and other moneys due to the Artist must be paid as soon as possible to the Artist, the Executor of the Artist's Estate, the Public Trustee or the Artist's beneficiaries as appropriate; and
all rights granted by the Artist to the Art Centre under this agreement otherwise immediately revert to the Artist.

If a dispute or disagreement arises between the parties in connection with this agreement (Dispute), neither party may start any litigation or arbitration in relation to the Dispute until it has complied with this clause.

If a party believes a Dispute has arisen, it must notify the other party in writing about the Dispute. The parties should meet within 28 calendar days after receipt of the notice of dispute and hold good faith discussions to attempt to resolve the Dispute.

If the Dispute is not resolved within 21 calendar days after meeting to attempt to resolve the dispute, the parties agree to submit the dispute to mediation according to the Arts Law Centre Mediation guidelines current at that time (Guidelines). These guidelines are part of this agreement.

If the parties are unable to resolve the Dispute within 21 calendar days of commencing mediation or such later time as may be agreed during the mediation, either party may refer the matter to arbitration or commence litigation.

The parties must continue to perform their respective obligations under this agreement despite the existence of a Dispute.

The parties acknowledge that the Art Centre becomes the agent of the Artist for the Term as a result of this agreement in respect of Artwork provided to the Art Centre under this agreement. 

A notice required to be given under this agreement may be delivered by hand, or sent by pre-paid post or fax to the address of the party indicated at the top of this agreement. Notices are taken to have been served when received, or within 7 business days of having been sent, whichever occurs first.

Neither party may assign, subcontract, novate or otherwise divest this agreement or any of the rights or obligations under this agreement without the other party's prior written consent. This consent must not be unreasonably withheld. 

Subject to clause 15.6, this agreement contains the entire agreement of the parties regarding its subject matter. Any previous understanding, agreement, representation or warranty relating to that subject matter is replaced by this agreement and has no further effect.

Nothing in this agreement transfers or excludes any applicable cultural rights in favour of Australian Indigenous people that may be implemented under Australian law.
This agreement may only be modified by a written amendment signed by the parties.
Invalidity of any clause of this agreement will not affect the validity of any other clause except to the extent made necessary by the invalidity.
This agreement is governed by the law in force in the jurisdiction specified in Schedule 1. The parties submit to the jurisdiction of the courts of that State and any court competent to hear appeals from those courts.

The Artist agrees that the Art Centre may register the Artist with a copyright collecting society such as Viscopy and/or Copyright Agency Limited. Within 28 calendar days of receiving any royalties under such an arrangement, the Art Centre must pay those royalties to the Artist by cheque or any other method notified by the Artist. 

During the Term, the Artist grants the Art Centre the non-exclusive right to photograph the Artist and the Artwork (Photos) or otherwise copy or reproduce or publish the Artwork or the Photos in any material form for promotional material or use in any promotional event to promote the Art Centre, the Artist or the Artwork including but not limited to any use in connection with the promotion of any exhibitions at which the Artwork is displayed or offered for Sale.

The Art Centre may sub-license the rights granted to it in paragraph 2. The Art Centre acknowledges that the Art Centre has no other present or future interest in the Artist's Intellectual Property.

The Art Centre must display a copyright notice that includes the Artist's name, the copyright symbol and the year that the Artwork was created:
Accompanying all reproductions of Artworks; and
on or adjacent to each Artwork on display.

During the Term, the Art Centre must comply with the Artist's reasonable requests and directions regarding the use of the Artist's Intellectual Property.

The Art Centre must not infringe, or permit others to infringe, the Artist's Intellectual Property, and will use all reasonable efforts to prevent any other person infringing those rights.

Without limiting the Artist's moral rights under the Copyright Act 1968 (Cth), the Art Centre must not, and must use all reasonable efforts not to let any other person or organisation destroy, damage, or alter any Artwork.

