The CDU/NTG Partnership Agreement seeks to maximise opportunities from the use of human, financial and infrastructure resources to meet joint priorities. One such priority is (insert project name).
As part of this project, a person is required to carry out the duties and functions of (insert position) with the host employer.
The CDU has agreed to release the Employee to perform duties in the service of NTG (the "Secondment").
The parties agree that the Secondment will operate on the terms and conditions set out in this Agreement.

The term of the Secondment will be (insert period eg: 12 months), commencing on (insert date) and terminating on (insert date) (the "Term"), unless terminated earlier by:
written agreement between the parties in accordance with clause 12; or
written notice following a breach of this Agreement in accordance with clause 7.

During the Term the Employee will be employed by the Host Employer and the Host Employer's terms and conditions of employment will govern the Employee's employment, including, without limitation: 
hours of work;
salary and method of payment;
performance incentive schemes;
annual leave, sick leave and other entitlements;
superannuation entitlements; and
use of company vehicles, accommodation and mobile telephones.


The Employee will perform the duties of (insert position) in accordance with the job description and duty statement provided by the Host Employer and set out in the Schedule (the "Duties").
Any changes to the Duties to be performed by the Employee, or the location at which they are performed, must be approved by both parties in writing prior to such changes taking effect.

During the term, the Employee is released from employment with CDU and:
all entitlements to which the Employee would otherwise have been entitled to under relevant CDU awards and certified agreements (the "CDU conditions") will cease to accrue;
service with the Host Employer will not count as service with CDU for any purpose; and
may not access any entitlements that have accrued under the CDU conditions.

On the termination of the Secondment, all annual leave entitlements accrued during the Term will be paid out to the Employee.

If a dispute arises between the Substantive Employer and the Host Employer as to any matter or thing arising out of this Agreement, an attempt will be made to resolve the dispute by negotiation.
If the Substantive Employer and the Host Employer are unable to resolve the dispute by negotiation within (insert) days of the dispute arising, or such longer period as agreed, the matter will be referred to the Chief Executive Officers of those parties for dispute resolution.
If the Chief Executive Officers are unable to resolve the matter within (insert) days, or such longer period as agreed, they will agree upon a process for resolving the dispute through an external dispute resolution process such as conciliation, mediation, independent expert determination, or a combination thereof.
If the Chief Executive Officers are unable to agree on an appropriate external dispute resolution process, either party may refer the matter to the President of the Law Society of the Northern Territory who will determine an appropriate external dispute resolution process and an appropriate provider of such process.
If the President of the Law Society of the Northern Territory determines that the dispute will be resolved by an independent expert, the independent expert's decision will be absolute and final and will bind the parties accordingly and this Agreement will be deemed to be amended to incorporate the terms of the independent expert's decision.
In making any decision the independent expert will be deemed to be acting as an expert and not an arbitrator.
The Substantive Employer and the Host Employer will bear the costs of the external dispute resolution process equally.

If the Substantive Employer or the Host Employer breaches any obligations under this Agreement, and fails to remedy the breach within 7 days of receiving written notice from the other party requesting it to do so, the other party may terminate the Agreement immediately by written notice.

All notices, approvals, consents, demands or other communications required or permitted to be given under this Agreement must be in writing and served:
personally;
by pre-paid certified post; or
by facsimile transmission,
the address of the party set out below or at such other address as a party may have substituted for it by written notice to the other.

A notice, approval consent, demand or other communication is deemed to be given by the sender and received by the addressee, if:
given by delivery in person, when delivered to the addressee;
sent by mail, on the third business day from and including the date of posting; or
sent by facsimile, on receipt of a complete and correct transmission report by the sender and if received by the addressee before 4.00pm (addressee's time) on a business day, on that day, otherwise it is deemed to be received at 9.00am on the following business day in the place of receipt.


A party may change its address or numbers for service by notice in writing to the other party.
A party must not, without the prior written consent of the other parties, disclose any of the substantive terms or conditions of this Agreement to any third party.
The parties must comply with all laws in force in the Northern Territory from time to time.
This Agreement may only be varied in writing signed by each of the parties.
A party must not assign or otherwise deal with this Agreement or any right under this Agreement without the prior written consent of the other parties.

If a court determines that a word, phrase, sentence, paragraph or provision in this arrangement is unenforceable, illegal or void then it will be severed and the other provisions of this arrangement will remain operative.
This Agreement is governed by and construed in accordance with the law for the time being in force in the Northern Territory and the parties hereto submit to the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court of the Northern Territory at Darwin in respect of all matters arising hereunder or related hereto.
