







MURDOCH WEBSTER TECHNOLOGY GROUP PTY LTD
ABN OF 72 941 863 780
OF
LEVEL 1A, 18-24 RICKETTS ROAD
MOUNT WAVERLEY VIC 3149

MWTG agrees to use its best endeavours to ensure that:
the Consultants are duly qualified and licensed (if applicable) to perform said tasks;
the Consultants will comply with all reasonable instructions of the Client in performing the Service;
the Consultants will comply with the policies of the Client in operation at the Location from time to time including but not limited to policies and guidelines relating to occupational health and safety, sexual harassment, equal opportunity and training and drug and alcohol use and any other relevant directions or regulations of the Client.

MWTG will use its best efforts to ensure that the Professional Service is performed but does not represent or guarantee a certain outcome, nor make any warranties or representations regarding the Service.

The Client undertakes to do the following:

provide a safe place of work for the Consultants to perform the Professional Service;
use its best efforts to ensure that the Consultants are not injured and does not suffer damage during the performance of the Service;
comply with its internal policies, regulations and training requirements with respect to, but not limited to occupational health and safety, sexual harassment and equal opportunity and in relation to the performance of the Service by the Consultants;
advise MWTG if the Consultant suffers an injury or is involved in a sexual harassment or discrimination claim in the performance of the Service at the Location, and
to not incur any liability on behalf of MWTG or sub contract or assign the performance of its obligations under this document without the prior written consent of MWTG, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld
to pay the Fee and Approved Expenses when invoiced and due. 

If the Client wishes to have a Consultant replaced by another Consultant, it must advise MWTG of such request and MWTG will use its best efforts to replace the Consultant with a suitable qualified replacement.

If the Client wishes to vary the Service, the Client is to make a written request to MWTG seeking its agreement to the variation of the Professional Service.

MWTG and the Client shall conduct meetings at times mutually agreed upon to assess the progress of the commercial cooperation between the parties as outlined in this Agreement.

The Client and MWTG may agree on a Fixed Price Arrangement, in which case the Fixed Price payable by the Client upon invoice from MWTG is stated in Item 8b of Schedule 1.

Alternatively, the Client is to pay a Fee to MWTG as stated in Item 8a of the Schedule according to the number of days worked by the Consultant for the Client in the performance of the Service. 

The Consultant is required to record the number of hours worked in the performance of the Service for the Client on a timesheet.

At the conclusion of each week the Consultant is to provide their time sheet to the Client.  The Client is required to confirm that the number of hours recorded were the hours worked by the Consultant in the performance of the Service.

The Client is to pay MWTG the Fee which is the amount stated in the invoice in accordance with the terms of the relevant invoice.

In the event that MWTG is liable to the Client for the payment of any sums of money, the Client is to provide a statement of the moneys owing to them, and, upon acceptance thereof by MWTG, MWTG may deduct that amount from the amount stated in the invoice provided in accordance with this Agreement.

Terms used in this clause have the meanings given to them in the A New Tax System (Goods and Service Tax) Act 1999 or the Trade Practices Act 1974, as appropriate.

Unless otherwise expressly stated, all prices or other sums payable or consideration to be provided under or in accordance with this document are exclusive of GST.

If GST is imposed on any supply made under or in accordance with this document, the recipient of the taxable supply must pay to the supplier an additional amount equal to the GST payable on or for the taxable supply subject to the recipient receiving a valid tax invoice in respect of the supply at or before the time of payment.  Payment of the additional amount will be made at the same time as payment for the taxable supply is required to be made in accordance with this document.

If GST is imposed on any Supply made pursuant to this Agreement, then the Client shall pay any GST imposed in respect of such Supply (in addition to any Fees or other costs or expenses payable in respect of that Supply).

If the Fees are expressly stated to be inclusive of GST and any applicable law increases or decreases, the rate of GST will be increased or decreased proportionately. 

If any amount payable by the Client is calculated by reference to any cost, expense or liability ('Cost') incurred by any person including MWTG, then such Cost, shall be the Cost actually incurred less the amount of any input tax credits which that party is entitled to claim in respect of that Cost. 

MWTG shall issue a tax invoice in accordance with the GST law. 

During the Service Period, the Consultant will have access to:
trade secrets and Confidential Information, including information about the business of the Client and its client and trade connections; and
Intellectual Property, including copyright materials.

MWTG will use reasonable efforts to ensure that:
the Consultant keeps confidential all Confidential Information;
the Consultant does not disclose any Confidential Information to any person except:
as required by law;
with the prior written consent of the Client; or
to the Client's agents, employees or advisers in the proper performance of the Service by the Consultant.
the Consultant does not use any Confidential Information for the benefit of any person except the Client or any Related Body Corporate;
the Consultant maintains proper and secure custody of all Confidential Information and will use its best endeavours to prevent the use or disclosure of the Confidential Information by third parties.

MWTG acknowledges that the Client is the sole owner of any rights in the Intellectual Property created, conceived developed or made by the Consultant in the performance of the Service.

MWTG and the Client agree that, notwithstanding the terms of this document, the responsibility for the protection of the Client's Confidential Information and Intellectual Property lies solely with the Client;

MWTG is not liable for any loss, liability, claim or expense arising from or related to:
the Client's Confidential Information or Intellectual Property; or
the failure by the Client or MWTG to execute an agreement to protect the Client's Confidential Information and Intellectual Property.

The Client agrees to indemnify MWTG in respect of any losses, expenses, actions, claims or liabilities arising from or related to the following:
a breach by the Client of any of its obligations under this document;
any act or omission of the Client or its employees, agents or servants including any act or omission that may contravene the provisions of any equal opportunity legislation;
the failure or alleged failure of a Consultant duly to perform the Service;
personal injury or death of a Consultant or any other person whatsoever or howsoever arising from or related to the performance by a Consultant of the Service;
damage to any property, including the property of any third person, arising from or related to the performance by a Consultant of the Service; and
any statutory charges, levies and taxes for which MWTG may become liable in respect of performing its obligations under this document by reason of such statutory charges, levies or taxes being introduced after the Commencement Date.

An MWTG Consulting Manager will be the key contact for the delivery and quality of the Professional Service provided and will be listed on Schedule One, along with their contact details.

The Client acknowledges that MWTG has expended considerable resources in locating, recruiting, training and managing the Consultant, who is in effect an employee of MWTG or is in a contractual relationship with MWTG. Therefore, if a Consultant is offered a permanent position with the Client or one of the Client's related entities, the Client shall pay to MWTG a fee equal to 12 months of the offered salary of the Consultant.  The offer must be communicated to the Consulting Manager named in Schedule One.

This document may be varied or replaced only by a document duly executed by the parties.

This document is governed by and is to be construed in accordance with the law of the relevant jurisdiction prescribed in item 9 of Schedule 1.

Each party irrevocably and unconditionally submits to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of the courts of the relevant jurisdiction and any courts which have jurisdiction to hear appeals from any of those courts and waives any right to object to any proceedings being brought in those courts.

This document may consist of a number of counterparts and if so the counterparts taken together constitute one and the same instrument.

Each party shall promptly execute all documents and do all things that any other party from time to time reasonably requires of it to effect, perfect or complete the provisions of this document and any transaction contemplated by it.

A party shall not dispose of or encumber any right under this document without the prior written consent of the other party.

This document is binding on a party to it even if it is not executed by any other person named as a party.

All previous negotiations, understandings, representations, warranties, memoranda or commitments in relation to, or in any way affecting, the subject matter of this document are merged in and superseded by this document and shall be of no force or effect whatever and no party shall be liable to any other party in respect of those matters.

No oral explanation or information provided by any party to another shall:
affect the meaning or interpretation of this document, or
constitute any collateral agreement, warranty or understanding between any of the parties.

Notwithstanding anything else in this document, the parties agree that any and all liability under this Agreement (whether pursuant to indemnification or otherwise) shall not exceed AUD $2.2million. MWTG will not be liable to the other party in any circumstances for any indirect, economic, special or consequential loss or damage, including but not limited to loss of revenue, loss of production or loss of profits.

Either party may terminate this Agreement:
if the other party commits a breach of this Agreement and fails to remedy the breach within 20 business days of being given notice of such breach; or
If the other party commits an act of insolvency; or
By giving 30 days notice in writing to the other party

On termination of this agreement:
the parties shall remain liable for the performance of all obligations or breaches of this agreement which have accrued or occurred up to and including the date of termination; and 
the Client shall pay to MWTG all Fees and other charges which have accrued due up to and including the date of termination, (including any charges which may arise as a consequence of such termination).

Termination of this agreement shall not release any party from its obligation to indemnify the other party in accordance with the terms of this agreement, in relation to any matter occurring up to and including the date of termination of this agreement, or from any obligation of confidentiality contained in this agreement, (which obligation shall continue after such termination).

