Queensland University of Technology and the Employee have entered into an arrangement (the "Arrangement") under which Queensland University of Technology may from time to time, at its absolute discretion, offer to provide the Employee with Benefits which may result in the Employee's Salary being reduced.
	
In terms of the Arrangement, Queensland University of Technology may offer to provide the Employee with a motor vehicle.
	
In the event the Employee is provided with a vehicle, the Employee agrees to take the vehicle on the terms and conditions contained herein.

In this Agreement unless the context otherwise requires, the singular includes the plural and vice versa and in particular any word or expression defined in the singular shall have a corresponding meaning when used in the plural and vice versa.
		
Upon accepting an offer to be provided with a Vehicle under this Agreement, the Employee agrees and covenants with Queensland University of Technology that he or she will:

Ensure that the Vehicle remains registered in the name of the Vehicle Supplier or Queensland University of Technology if obtained through the QUT Executive Vehicle Scheme as specified in item 6 of the Schedule at all times and that the Employee will not allow the Vehicle to be used for any purpose for so long as it is not so registered;

Ensure that the Vehicle is regularly serviced in terms of the manufacturer's or, if prescribed, the Vehicle Supplier's requirements, and that repairs or any faulty parts are promptly replaced.  The Employee acknowledges that any replacement parts are to remain affixed to the Vehicle and are the property of the Vehicle Supplier;

Save for fair wear and tear not subject to driver abuse, keep the Vehicle in the same condition as at the Commencement Date and properly cleaned, serviced and maintained during the Term;

Not without the prior written consent of Queensland University of Technology, make any alteration or addition to the Vehicle other than such alterations and additions in the course of servicing and maintaining the Vehicle; and keep the Vehicle in a roadworthy condition.

The Employee agrees:

To indemnify and keep indemnified Queensland University of Technology against any claims (contingent or otherwise), suits, actions, losses, damages, judgements, costs, fines, penalties, interest or expenses incurred in relation to the Vehicle including without limitation:

Any breach of this Agreement;

The cessation of any agreement or arrangement with the Vehicle Supplier; any breach of relevant road traffic legislation, including without limitation, traffic infringement fines and penalties including parking, speeding and red light camera fines; and

Any fringe benefits tax liability arising from or associated with the Vehicle being provided to the Employee.

The Employee acknowledges that it is his or her sole responsibility to seek independent advice on the appropriateness of the Arrangement before accepting an offer to take a Vehicle.
	
The Employee acknowledges and agrees that neither Queensland University of Technology, its officers, employees, suppliers, contractors or agents can be held responsible should the taking of a Vehicle prove at any time to be inappropriate to the Employee's circumstances.
	
For motor vehicles on an operating lease, it is agreed that during the Term Queensland University of Technology has right of use of the vehicle and may provide the employee with private use of a vehicle. Option B.
	
The Employee acknowledges that the Vehicle costs include, without limitation, all maintenance and running costs of the Vehicle (including registration fees, insurance premiums, repairs, restoration works, servicing and fuel) incurred during the Term.

The Employee agrees that he or she is responsible for all and any fringe benefits tax liability arising from or associated with the Vehicle, including any fringe benefits tax liability arising from the disposal of the Vehicle if applicable.

The Employee agrees to pay all administrative costs and charges incidental to the provision of the Vehicle.
	
The Employee acknowledges and accepts that the safe custody of the Vehicle is his or her responsibility.

The Employee agrees to provide Queensland University of Technology with all information required by Queensland University of Technology to satisfy the requirements of the motor vehicle insurer nominated by Queensland University of Technology and declares that all information so provided is true and correct.

The Employee agrees to follow the accident procedures and police reporting guidelines advised from time to time by Queensland University of Technology, and to advise Queensland University of Technology immediately of any damage to the Vehicle.

The Employee acknowledges that he or she has been provided with a copy of the insurance policy document except where the vehicle is provided through the QUT Executive Vehicle Scheme and that consistent with general insurance company practices, hereby acknowledges that the Vehicle's insurance cover does not cover the exclusions contained in the said Policy including, without limitation: 

Claims arising whilst driving the Vehicle under the influence of or when impaired by any drug or intoxicating liquor;

Claims arising from using the vehicle in an unroadworthy or dangerous condition; 

Or claims arising from any unlicensed person driving the vehicle with the Employee's consent.

Full particulars of the above and all other exclusions are set out in the policy 			document.

In the event of an insurance claim, the Employee agrees that he or she is liable for the nominated excess as determined by the insurer except for vehicles provided through the QUT Executive Vehicle Scheme where the employee's liability covers damage or theft when the vehicle is being used for non-business purposes.

The Agreement shall commence on the Commencement Date and shall continue until:

Terminated by the Employee giving Queensland University of Technology one month's notice in writing; or terminated by Queensland University of Technology should the Employee be guilty of any breach of these Terms and Conditions; or the Employee ceases employment with Queensland University of Technology.

Queensland University of Technology may terminate the Agreement with effect on and from the date the finance company receives written notice from Queensland University of Technology that the Employee has ceased to be employed, engaged or on unpaid leave by Queensland University of Technology for whatever reason.

In the event of unpaid leave, the employee will need to ensure that sufficient salary sacrifice funds are available to meet all costs associated with Queensland University of Technology supplied vehicle(s) during periods of unpaid leave, for whatever reason the leave arises.  Without prejudice, these costs will include lease, registration, insurance, maintenance and where necessary, storage, disposal and transport costs.  Where there are insufficient funds, Queensland University of Technology has the option to cease providing the benefit except for vehicles provided through the QUT Executive Vehicle Scheme.

With vehicles provided through the QUT Executive Vehicle Scheme, for periods of unpaid leave in excess of six weeks, retention of the motor vehicle by the staff member is at the discretion of the head of the organisational unit, depending on the business use requirements of the unit.  If the organisational unit requires sole use of the vehicle during leave in excess of six weeks then the organisational unit will pay all lease and maintenance costs for this period and the staff members salary sacrifice payments will temporarily cease.

Notwithstanding the above, Queensland University of Technology may terminate the Agreement at any time should changes in any legislation or the enactment of any new legislation impose on Queensland University of Technology financial or other obligations in relation to the Arrangement which are, in Queensland University of Technology's sole discretion, unacceptable to Queensland University of Technology.

Upon termination, the Employee will deliver the Vehicle back to Queensland University of Technology in the same condition (fair wear and tear excepted) as at the Commencement Date.

All notices and consents required or permitted to be given under this agreement must be in writing and given by personal service, prepaid postage, facsimile transmission or telex transmission at such address as either party may designate to the other by written notice.

Neither this agreement nor any rights or obligations hereunder may be assigned or otherwise transferred by either party without the prior written permission of the other.

This agreement is governed by the laws of the State/Territory set out in item 6 of the Schedule and the parties submit to the jurisdiction of that State/Territory.

This Lease may be modified only in writing signed by duly authorised persons for both parties.

If any provision of the agreement should be held to be invalid in any way or unenforceable, the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby, and this agreement shall be construed so as to most nearly give effect to the intent of the parties as it was originally executed.

The obligations of the Employee survive the termination of this agreement and shall ensure for the benefit of and enforceable by Queensland 
