During the term of this Agreement the Contractor shall have the licence and right to supply all refreshments and other commodities agreed between the parties from the Canteen.

The licence and right shall continue for the term set out in Item 4 of the Schedule between the hours set out in Item 5 of the Schedule and on the days set out in Item 6 of the Schedule or at such other times as may be agreed between the parties.

The School may cancel this Licence any time by giving the Contractor 28 day's notice in writing.

The Contractor and its employees and agents will be entitled to access to the Canteen  at all reasonable times, before, during and after every time when the Canteen is required to be opened under sub-clause 3, for the purpose of operating the Canteen and deliveries to the Canteen PROVIDED THAT the Contractor and its agents and employees at all times enter and leave the Canteen by such route as instructed by the Principal and does not remain or permit its agents or employees to remain within the Premises after the time in Item 7 of the Schedule.

The Contractor will promptly comply with all reasonable and lawful instructions given by or on behalf of the Principal.

The Contractor will pay to the School a weekly licence fee of the amount set out in Item 8 of the Schedule.  Such Licence Fee shall be payable weekly in advance, the first payment to be made on the date of commencement of this Agreement in such manner as the Principal may direct from time to time.  No Licence Fee shall be payable for any week during which the Contractor does not operate the Canteen by reason of the fact that the School is closed to pupils.

The School will be entitled to review the licence fee on or after the date(s) in Item 9 of the Schedule.  The Principal will advise the Contractor in writing of the new licence fee.  PROVIDED THAT if the Contractor is not willing to pay the new licence fee it will be entitled to terminate the licence upon 4 weeks notice in writing to the Principal.

The Contractor will use the Canteen only for the purpose of selling refreshments and other commodities agreed between the parties from time to time within the School.  All items to be sold by the Contractor from the Canteen shall be approved by the Principal.

The Contractor will not permit any of the Equipment to be removed from the Canteen other than for necessary repairs.
 
The Contractor will replace, or at the Principal's option, pay for, any item of Equipment which is lost, damaged or destroyed and all articles supplied by the Contractor by way of replacement shall immediately become the property of the School and fall within the definition of Equipmentherein.

Throughout the continuance of this Agreement the Contractor shall conform at its own cost and expense with all Acts of both Federal and State Parliaments and all Regulations, Bylaws, Ordinances or Orders made thereunder and the lawful requirements of any Public, Municipal or other authority so far as the same may affect or apply to the Contractor or the works being carried out by the Contractor, and the Contractor shall indemnify the Principal from and against all actions, costs, charges, claims and demands in respect thereof.

The laundering of any uniforms or overalls worn by the Contractor shall be the responsibility of the Contractor.

If any employee of the Contractor is guilty of any misconduct on the Canteen or Premises or in the vicinity of the Premises the Principal may immediately require the Contractor to cease to employ such employee in the Canteen and may forbid any such employee to enter the Canteen or Premises.  In such event the Principal will have the right to cause him or her to be removed from the Canteen or Premises PROVIDED ALWAYS that neither the School or the Principal shall be in any way liable in respect of any claim made by any such employee for wages or damages and the Contractor shall indemnify the School and the Principal against every such claim.

The Contractor shall effect Public Liability Insurance with a company approved by the Principal for an amount not less than $10 million.  The Contractor will provide the Principal no later than at the time of entry into this agreement a Certificate of Currency of such insurance and shall provide to the Principal each year a valid Certificate of Currency.  Such policy shall note the Principal as an interested party.  The Contractor shall also effect other insurances required to be effected by it by law.  Without limiting the generality hereof, the Contractor shall arrange all necessary insurance with respect to its employees under the provisions of any relevant workers compensation legislation and shall if required by the Principal produce evidence of such insurance from time to time.

The Contractor shall be responsible for and shall indemnify the Principal against liability for all loss, damage or injury to persons or property caused by the Contractor, or its employees or agents, and the amount of all claims, damages, costs and expenses which may be paid, suffered or incurred by the Principal in respect of any such loss, damage or injury shall be made good at the Contractor's expense and may be deducted from any monies due or becoming due to the Contractor.
 
Nothing contained herein shall constitute the relationship of partnership or employer and employee between the parties hereto.  The Contractor will not hold itself out as conducting its business under the authority of or with the supervision of the Principal and shall do nothing to suggest that it is in any way acting in conjunction with the Principal.

This Agreement constitutes the whole agreement between the parties, can be modified only in writing and shall be subject to and interpreted in accordance with the laws of New South Wales.

Upon the termination or expiration of this Agreement the Contractor shall have the right to remove any items installed in the Canteen by the Contractor other than items that have been provided by the Contractor to replace any of the Equipment PROVIDED that in the course of such removal the Contractor shall not cause or allow any damage or injury to the Canteen or to the Premises and shall immediately make good and repair all damage and injury caused by or connected with such removal.

The fee to be paid by the Contractor under this Agreement includes the Goods and Services Tax (currently 10%).  The Trustees (school) agree to provide the Contractor with a tax invoice showing the amount of Goods and Services Tax payable.

The Contractor acknowledges the Privacy Notice referred to in Item 11 of the Schedule.

The Contractor acknowledges receipt of Child Protection material from the Principal including CEO Sydney Child Protection Guidelines Section 6(g) and Section 9.10 and agrees to provide any information requested by the Principal and to comply with all legislation and guidelines relating to Child Protection.

In applying to provide your services you will be providing the school with personal information. We can be contacted via the information contained in the header of this document.

If you provide us with personal information, for example your name and address or information contained on your resume/tender/application, we will collect the information in order to assess your application. We may also make notes and prepare a confidential report in respect of your application.

You agree that we may store this information for an indefinite period.

Access to this information may be available to you if you ask the School for it.

We will not usually disclose this information to a third party without your consent.

We are required to collect information and undertake certain checks under NSW Child Protection law if your work will involve direct, unsupervised contact with children in the School.

If you provide us with the personal information of others, we encourage you to inform them that you are disclosing that information to the School and why, that they can access that information if they wish and that the school does not usually disclose the information to third parties.

