The University agrees to conduct the Research in accordance with this Agreement.
The Parties will supply the Resources required to conduct the Research as set out in Items 4 and 5 of the Schedule.

The Parties agree that this Agreement shall commence on the Commencement Date and, unless extended or terminated earlier in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement, will remain in effect for the Term. 

Each Party acknowledges and agrees that it will not have any claim, ownership or interest in the other Party's Background Intellectual Property or Improvements in such Background Intellectual Property.

Each Party grants to the other Party a non-exclusive, royalty-free licence to use its Background Intellectual Property for the purpose of carrying out the Research.

In consideration of the rights granted in this Agreement, it is agreed and acknowledged by the Parties that the University is and will be at all times the owner of the Program IP.

The University grants to Abbreviation a non-exclusive, royalty free, worldwide, perpetual licence to use the Program IP for the purpose of internal research and education.

Abbreviation acknowledges that the University shall own all rights and interests any methods and techniques, to the extent such methods and techniques do not form not part of Background Intellectual Property or Improvements, which are used in connection with the Research.

The University does not warrant that the Program Intellectual Property or Research or any part thereof is or will be valid or of any commercial value. All such warranties, including those of merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose are excluded.

The University does not warrant that the manufacture, sale, marketing or other dealing or use of the Program Intellectual Property or any products derived from the Research are not or will not be an infringement of the rights of third parties.
 
Abbreviation warrants that:
it will not use the name of the University in any manner unless specifically approved by the University, in writing.
it will not use, nor allow, explicitly or implicitly, the use by third parties, of the University of Melbourne name and logo on any Products.
it will do all things reasonably within its capacity to ensure that the University is not exposed to any liabilities that might arise directly or indirectly as a consequence of using the Research, Program Intellectual Property or any Products.

The Parties shall at all times indemnify and hold harmless each other and their respective Personnel from and against any loss (including legal costs and expenses), or liability, which is incurred or suffered by the other Party or their respective Personnel arising from any claim, suit, demand, action or proceeding where such loss or liability was directly caused by the unlawful or negligent act or omission of the other Party or its Personnel in connection with this Agreement.

A Party's liability to indemnify the other under this Clause shall be reduced proportionally to the extent that any unlawful or negligent act or omission of the other Party or its Personnel contributed to the loss or liability.

The indemnity in this Clause shall survive the expiration or termination of this Agreement.

The Receiving Party must:
keep all Confidential Information of the Disclosing Party confidential unless strictly required otherwise by law;
limit access to those of its employees or agents reasonably requiring the Confidential Information on a strictly need to know basis for the Research;
not use Confidential Information in any way that would be harmful to the best interests of the Disclosing Party;
not use any Confidential Information in any way other than for the Research or as otherwise contemplated by this Agreement without the prior written permission of the Disclosing Party;
not copy, in whole or in part, any Confidential Information without the prior written permission of the Disclosing Party; and
ensure that all Personnel to whom Confidential Information is disclosed are legally bound under the terms and conditions of their employment agreements or otherwise to keep the Confidential Information confidential and not to use the Confidential Information except for the Research.

Confidential Information excludes, or as the case requires, ceases to include information, which is, or becomes:
available to the public at the date of its disclosure to the Receiving Party;
at the date of its disclosure to the Receiving Party, already properly in the possession of the Receiving Party in written form otherwise than by prior confidential disclosure from the Disclosing Party;
after the date of its disclosure to the Receiving Party, available to the public from sources other than the Receiving Party;
after the date of its disclosure to the Receiving Party, properly available to the Receiving Party from a third party having no obligation of confidentiality to the Disclosing Party;
demonstrated by the Receiving Party to be independently developed by an employee or agent of the Receiving Party having no knowledge of such information the subject of the disclosure;

Publication of Academic Work
Where a student or a member of staff of the University are involved in the Research, the following provisions apply:
subject to this sub-clause 8.1, a student or member of staff of the University may publish the results of any work carried out by that student or staff member;
Abbreviation will not have editorial rights over the content of the written work of the student or staff member;
the University shall not without the prior written consent of Abbreviation publish material that contains Abbreviation's Confidential Information.

Any notice, demand, consent or other communication ("Notice") given or made under this Agreement:
must be in writing and signed by a person duly authorised by the sender;
must either be delivered to the intended recipient by post or by hand or fax to the address or fax number below or the address or fax number last notified by the intended recipient to the sender:
to The University:
The University of Melbourne
Victoria 3010
Attn:  Professor Frank P Larkins
Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Research)
Fax No:	(03) 9347 6883

Parties to negotiate in good faith
If any dispute or difference arises in connection with this Agreement, then the Parties shall negotiate in good faith, using their best endeavours to resolve the dispute or difference.

The Parties are independent contracting parties, and nothing in this Agreement shall make any Party the agent or legal representative of the other for any purpose whatsoever, nor does it grant either Party any authority to assume or to create any obligation on behalf of or in the name of the other.

This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement of the Parties with respect to its subject matter and supersedes all prior oral or written representations and agreements.

If any provision of this Agreement is invalid or unenforceable, such provision(s) shall be deemed deleted but only to the extent necessary and the remaining provisions of this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect.

A waiver of either Party of a breach of any provision of this Agreement does not constitute a waiver of any succeeding breach of the same or any other provision.

Any modification, alteration, change or variation of any term and condition of this Agreement shall be made in writing.

This Agreement is governed by the laws of the State of Victoria and the Commonwealth of Australia.  Each Party submits to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of courts there in connection with matters concerning this Agreement.


