The Funding Recipient will conduct the Project.
DFAT has agreed to fund the Project on the terms and conditions set out in this agreement.

DFAT will provide the Funding Recipient with the Funding at the times and in the manner specified in Schedule 2, subject to:
DFAT continuing to have sufficient funding allocated to the Project in its own internal budget; 
there being no unremedied breach of this agreement by the Funding Recipient; and
DFAT being satisfied with the Funding Recipient's performance of the Project.

Without limiting DFAT's rights, DFAT may withhold or suspend any payment in whole or in part if DFAT considers that it may have grounds to terminate this agreement.

The Funding Recipient must obtain contributions from other sources in the amounts set out in Schedule 1 and shown as 'Other Contributions (money)' and 'Other Contributions (in-kind)' (if any).

The Funding Recipient agrees to pay or reimburse DFAT on demand for all taxes, duties (including stamp duty) and government charges imposed or levied in connection with this agreement (other than GST).
Unless otherwise indicated, all consideration for any supply under this agreement is exclusive of any GST imposed on the supply.  The Funds paid by DFAT are inclusive of GST.  

The Funding Recipient must provide DFAT with a valid tax invoice prior to payment of the Funds.

The Funding Recipient must (and where appropriate, ensure that the Funding Recipient's personnel):
applicable law:  comply with all applicable law;
performance standards:  carry out the Project within the Project Period, in accordance with this agreement, with due care and skill, to a high professional standard and in a timely manner;
Project Account:  ensure that the Funds are held in the Project Account (details of which must be notified to DFAT within five (5) Business Days of the Commencement Date) at all times prior to expenditure of the Funds according to this agreement;
expenditure only for project:  only expend the Funding for the Project in accordance with the Budget.  For avoidance of doubt, the Funding shall not be used to purchase an asset; 
records:  keep full and accurate Records of the conduct of the Project, including progress against the Phases, the receipt and use of Funding and Other Contributions (if any) and the creation of Project Material.  These Records must be retained by the Funding Recipient for a period of no less than 7 years after the end of the Project Period;
financial and accounting records:  keep financial and accounting records relating to the Project so as to enable all income and expenditure related to the Project to be separately identified in the Funding Recipient's accounts.  This obligation continues until 7 years after termination or expiry of this agreement; 
reports: give DFAT the Reports and any other information (including access to the Funding Recipient's records (including Records) relating to the Project) or reports reasonably requested by DFAT;
meetings: attend meetings with DFAT to discuss the Project when required;
notify change in status:  immediately inform DFAT of any change in the Funding Recipient's status or circumstances that may affect the Funding Recipient's ability to undertake the Project or to comply with this agreement; and
repayment of funds:  if, at any time during the Term of this agreement or on expiry or termination of this agreement, there remains an amount of Funding that has not been expended in accordance with this agreement or not acquitted to DFAT's satisfaction, then this amount must be refunded by the Funding Recipient to DFAT within twenty (20) Business Days of a written notice from DFAT, or dealt with as directed in writing by DFAT.  Any amount owed to DFAT under this paragraph will be recoverable as a debt due to DFAT without further proof of the debt being necessary.

The Funding Recipient must (and where appropriate, ensure that the Funding Recipient's personnel): 
policies, procedures, directions: comply with DFAT's practices, policies, codes of conduct, procedures and reasonable directions, as notified by DFAT from time to time;
Auditor-General and Privacy Commissioner: do all things necessary to ensure that DFAT is able to comply with any lawful request of the Auditor-General and the Privacy Commissioner relating to this agreement, including allowing the Auditor-General and the Privacy Commissioner to inspect, copy or remove documents, and to access the Funding Recipient's premises;
insurance: take out and maintain throughout the Term the insurances specified in Schedule 2 and provide DFAT with evidence of the currency and amount of cover under those policies, promptly on request;
confidential information: not use or disclose (directly or indirectly) any of DFAT's confidential information except for the purposes of this agreement, with DFAT's consent or where required to do so by law; 
privacy: in respect of Personal Information held by the Funding Recipient in connection with this agreement:
comply with the public-sector Information Privacy Principles in the Privacy Act 1988 and any other applicable legislation regarding privacy; and
use that information only for the purposes of this agreement, and disclose that information only as permitted by DFAT; and
moral rights consent:  not enforce, and use reasonable endeavours to obtain from each author their agreement that they not enforce, any moral rights in the Project Material; and
no subcontracting:  not, without the prior approval of DFAT, subcontract the performance of any obligations under this agreement or the Project.  DFAT may revoke its approval of a subcontractor on reasonable grounds.

Subject to this clause 4, as between DFAT and the Funding Recipient (but without affecting the position between the Funding Recipient and a third party) intellectual property rights in Project Material vest in the Funding Recipient on their creation.
The Funding Recipient grants DFAT a permanent, irrevocable, transferable, free, world wide, non-exclusive licence (including a right to sub-license) to use, reproduce, adapt and exploit the intellectual property rights in Project Material for any purpose other than commercial exploitation.

The Funding Recipient acknowledges that:
no employment, agency etc:  the Funding Recipient is not an employee, agent, partner or joint venturer of DFAT; and
confidentiality:  subject to the Privacy Act 1988, DFAT is under no obligation to keep any of the Funding Recipient's information confidential, and may be required to provide information in relation to the Funding or this agreement, as required by the operation of any law, judicial or parliamentary body or governmental agency.

The Funding Recipient represents and warrants that:
its funding application:  all statements made in its application for Funding were, when made, and remain, correct, complete and not false or misleading in any way; and
no conflict: at the Commencement Date, no conflict of interest exists or is likely to arise in the delivery of the Project.  The Funding Recipient will immediately inform DFAT if it becomes aware that such a conflict exists or is likely to arise during the Term.

The Funding Recipient indemnifies DFAT (including DFAT's officers, employees and agents) against any loss or liability incurred by DFAT, including legal costs, arising from or in connection with any act or omission of the Funding Recipient or the Funding Recipient's personnel under or in connection with this agreement. 

DFAT may terminate this agreement by giving written notice to the Funding Recipient if the Funding Recipient is in breach of this agreement or becomes Insolvent.  No compensation is payable by DFAT for termination under this clause.

In addition to its rights set out in clause 6.1, DFAT may, at any time and at DFAT's absolute discretion, terminate this agreement by written notice to the Funding Recipient.  The Funding Recipient must take reasonable steps to mitigate any loss resulting from termination under this clause.  DFAT is only liable for reasonable costs incurred by the Funding Recipient and directly attributable to the termination.

The Funding Recipient must not, without the prior written approval of DFAT, issue or participate in any media release or publicity in relation to the Project.
The Funding Recipient must, in any publicity in relation to the Project approved by DFAT under clause 7.1(a), acknowledge the financial and other support provided by DFAT, in the manner set out in Schedule 1 or otherwise approved by DFAT prior to its use.  

DFAT reserves the right to publicise, undertake promotional activities relating to, and report on the awarding of Funding to the Funding Recipient and the Funding Recipient's carrying out of the Project.
This clause 7 continues to apply for a period of 7 years from the date of expiry or earlier termination of this agreement.


The Funding Recipient may transfer up to 10% only of the total Funds between the categories of expenditure, without DFAT's approval.  

The Funding Recipient must report the transfer of all Funds between categories, whether made under the preceding subclause 1.2 or with the approval of DFAT, in its acquittal report that it provides to DFAT.


Subject to DFAT being satisfied that the Funding Recipient has achieved the relevant milestones and subject to the terms of the agreement, the Funding Recipient will receive the following funds on or about the dates specified in the table:

The Funding Recipient must complete and provide to DFAT a final report and acquittal form substantially in the format located at Annexure A to this Schedule 2

