This Deed and terms used in it will be interpreted in accordance with the SSO Constitution.   
The parties acknowledge and agree that the primary objectives of this Deed are to:
commit to, and implement, the Commitment;
ensure co-operation between the parties to ensure the success of the Commitment; and
enable the parties to successfully undertake and meet their respective objectives and responsibilities under this Deed.

The general principles of conduct which the parties agree to observe and respect in their dealings with each other in achieving the objectives in clause 2.1 and satisfying their respective obligations under this Deed are to:
act in such a way as is consistent with and conducive to achievement of the stated objectives; and
deal with one another in good faith in all dealings, acts, matters and things and to co-operate with one another including conducting in good faith such discussions and negotiations as may be necessary or desirable to resolve amicably any difference or dispute which may arise between them.

In consideration of the mutual promises in this Deed the parties:
will comply with their respective obligations under the SSO Constitution, the SSO Regulations and all policies made by SSO;
commit to the Commitment from the date of this Deed until [INSERT DATE]; and
will meet the obligations and provide the respective services in the manner and as set out in the respective schedule as follows:

The parties agree that they cannot withdraw from this Deed and the Commitment unless:
they unanimously agree to release a party or parties from the Commitment; or
a party or parties winds up or amalgamates; or
the Region or Club ceases to be a Member of SSO.

Unless otherwise set out in this Deed the parties acknowledge and agree that:
the Commitment will be operated and managed by SSO; and
planning for the Commitment will be the responsibility of SSO.

A party may make any disclosure of the terms of this Deed that it thinks necessary to:
any professional advisers, auditors, bankers, financial advisers and financiers, on receipt of an undertaking from that person to keep the terms of this Deed confidential;
comply with any law or requirement of any regulatory body (including any relevant stock exchange); 
any employee or any employee of any Related Body Corporate (as defined in the Corporations Act) to whom it is necessary to disclose the terms, on receipt of an undertaking from that person to keep the terms of this Deed confidential; or
any shareholder or affiliate of the party, including any members, officers or councillors of a shareholder or affiliate of the party, provided that the Deed is not reproduced and distributed to such persons in part or in full.

The parties acknowledge that they enter into this Deed fully and voluntarily on their own information and investigation.

If any dispute or difference arises between any of the parties to this Deed under this Deed and they are unable to resolve the dispute or difference, then the dispute or difference will be resolved under the Grievance Procedure under the SSO Constitution. 

Each party shall take all steps, execute all documents and do everything reasonably required by the other parties to give effect to the transactions contemplated by this Deed.

This Deed may be amended only by another deed executed by all parties.

The rights and obligations of each party under this Deed are personal.  They cannot be assigned, charged or otherwise dealt with, and no party shall attempt or purport to do so without the prior written consent of all the parties.

No failure to exercise and no delay in exercising any right, power or remedy under this Deed will operate as a waiver.  Nor will any single or partial exercise of any right, power or remedy preclude any other or further exercise of that or any other right, power or remedy.

This Deed may be executed in any number of counterparts.  All counterparts taken together will be taken to constitute one agreement.

This Deed is governed by the laws of New South Wales.  The parties submit to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of courts exercising jurisdiction there.


