The parties appoint the mediator to mediate in accordance with the terms of 	this agreement the dispute between them. The dispute is briefly described in 	Schedule 1 to this Agreement (the "Dispute"). The mediator accepts the 	appointment to mediate the Dispute at a time and place agreed to by the parties 	and set out in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 

The mediator will be neutral and impartial. The mediator will assist the parties to attempt to resolve the dispute by helping them to: 
systematically isolate the issues in dispute; 
develop options for the resolution of these issues; 
explore the usefulness of these options; and 
meet their interests and needs. 
The mediator may meet with the parties together or separately. 
The mediator will not: 
give legal or other professional advice to any party; or 
impose a result on any party; or 
make decisions for any party. 
The mediator will not accept an appointment or act for any party in relation to 	any proceedings concerning the Dispute. 
Neither party will take action to cause the mediator to breach Clause 5. 

The mediator must, prior to the commencement of the mediation, disclose to 	the parties to the best of the mediator's knowledge any prior dealings with any 	of the parties as well as any interest in the Dispute. 
If in the course of the mediation the mediator becomes aware of any 	circumstances that might reasonably be considered to affect the mediator's 	capacity to act impartially, the mediator must immediately inform the parties 	of these circumstances. The parties will then decide whether the mediation 	will continue with that mediator or with a new mediator appointed by the 	parties. 
Co-Operation by the Parties 
The parties must co-operate with the mediator and each other during the 	mediation. 

As part of the mediation the mediator will schedule a preliminary conference 	at a time and venue convenient to the parties to establish a timetable for the 	mediation. 
The mediator, the parties and their representatives who are to attend the 	mediation session must attend the preliminary conference. 

If a party is a natural person, the party is expected to attend the preliminary 	conference and the mediation  conference in person with authority to settle 	within any range that can reasonably be anticipated. If a party is not a natural 	person it must be represented at the preliminary conference and the mediation 	conference by a person with full authority to make agreements binding on it 	settling the Dispute.
At the mediation each party may have one or more other persons, including 	legally qualified persons, to assist and advise them. 

Any information disclosed to a mediator in private is to be treated as 	confidential by the mediator unless the party making the disclosure states 	otherwise. 

The participants will not disclose to anyone not involved in the mediation any 	information or document given to them during the mediation unless that 	person has signed the prescribed confidentiality agreement in the form 	attached to this agreement. 
The participants agree that subject to Clauses 20 and 21, the following will be 	privileged and will not be disclosed in, or be the subject of a subpoena to give 	evidence or to produce documents, in any proceedings in respect of the 	Dispute: 
Any settlement proposal whether made by a party or the mediator. 
The willingness of a party to consider any such proposal. 
Any statement made by a party or the mediator during the mediation. 
Any information prepared for the mediation. 

The Mediator will return/destroy (delete as applicable) all documentation other than the mediation agreement and any terms of settlement.

A party may terminate the mediation at any time after consultation with the 	mediator. 18.2  	The mediator has a discretion to terminate or suspend the process at anytime. 
The mediator may terminate the mediator's involvement in the mediation if, 	after consultation with the parties, the mediator feels unable to assist the 	parties to achieve resolution of the Dispute. 

If agreement is reached at the mediation, the terms of the agreement must be 	written down and signed by the parties before they leave the mediation. 

Any party may enforce the terms of the settlement agreement by judicial 	proceedings. 
For the purposes of Clause 20, any party may call evidence of the settlement 	agreement including evidence from the mediator and any other person 	engaged in the mediation. 
All costs associated with this mediation to be paid for by (insert names) as otherwise ordered by the Court.

The mediator will not be liable to a party for any act or omission in the 	performance of the mediator's obligations under this agreement unless the act 	or omission is fraudulent. 
The parties together and separately indemnify the mediator against any claim 	for any act or omission in the performance of the mediator's obligations under 	this agreement unless the act or omission is fraudulent. 
The parties together and separately will be liable to the mediator for the 	mediator's fees described in Schedule 3. The parties will share equally all the 	other costs of the mediation described in Schedule 3. 
If the mediation does not result in an agreement to resolve the dispute, the 	costs of the mediation will be costs in the cause, i.e. costs of the mediation 	(including those of the legal representatives to attend the mediation) will be 	treated as part of the overall costs in subsequent court proceedings which are 	generally payable by the losing party. 
