The Convention on Biological Diversity and the Bonn Guidelines under it give parties to the Convention the responsibility to manage their biological diversity to ensure, inter alia, fair and equitable sharing of the benefits arising from the use of genetic resources.
Section 301 of the Environment Protection and Biodiversity Conservation Act 1999 (EPBC Act) provides for regulations to be made for the control of access to biological resources in Commonwealth areas, including the equitable sharing of the benefits arising from the use of biological resources in Commonwealth areas. 
Part 8A of the Environment Protection and Biodiversity Conservation Regulations 2000 (EPBC Regulations) makes provisions for the purposes of section 301 of the EPBC Act.  The regulations require access to biological resources in a Commonwealth area to be in accordance with a permit under the regulations unless the biological resources have been declared exempt.  An applicant for a permit to access biological resources for commercial purposes or potential commercial must enter into a benefit-sharing agreement with each access provider for the resources.
The Commonwealth is the access provider for the purposes of Part 8A of the EPBC Regulations for biological resources in Commonwealth areas (as defined in the EPBC Act).
The Access Party is the applicant for, or intends to apply for, a permit under Part 8A of the EPBC Regulations to access the biological resources, in the Commonwealth area or areas, specified in Schedule 2 to this Deed.
This Deed constitutes a Benefit Sharing Agreement for the purposes of Part 8A of the EPBC Regulations.
In consideration of the Access Party entering into this Deed the Commonwealth grants the Access Party access to the biological resources, in the Commonwealth area or areas, specified in Schedule 2.
In consideration of the Commonwealth granting access the Access Party will access and use the biological resources in accordance with this Deed and will provide the Commonwealth with the benefits specified in Schedules 3 and 4 to this Deed.
This Deed, in conjunction with an access permit issued under Part 8A of the EPBC Regulations, gives the Access Party access to biological resources in the Access Area.
          
Access Areameans the Commonwealth area or areas specified in Schedule 2 where the Access Party may have access to biological resources;Access Partymeans the person or persons (individual or organisation) named as the Access Party and includes their officers, employees, agents and contractors, or any of them, where the context permits;access to biological resourceshas the meaning given by the EPBC Regulations and means the taking of biological resources of native species for research and development on any genetic resources, or biochemical compounds, comprising or contained in the biological resources, but does not include activities described in regulation 8A.03(3);access permitmeans a permit issued in accordance with Part 17 of the EPBC Regulations, for the purposes of Part 8A of the Regulations, authorising access to biological resources in the Access Area;biological resourceshas the meaning given by the EPBC Act and includes genetic resources, organisms, parts of organisms, populations and any other biotic component of an ecosystem with actual or potential use or value for humanity;Business Dayin relation to the doing of any action in a place, means a weekday other than a public holiday in that place;Commencement Datemeans the date of this Deed;Commonwealth areahas the meaning given by section 525 of the EPBC Act;Confidential Informationmeans:
any information described as confidential in Schedule 1 to this Deed; and
any information that is agreed between the Parties after the Date of this Deed as constituting Confidential Information for the purposes of this Deed;Deedmeans this Deed, the Schedules to this Deed and any attachments;Departmentmeans the Department of the Environment, Water, Heritage and the Arts and includes any department or agency of the Commonwealth of Australia that succeeds to the functions of the Department;EPBC Actmeans the Environment Protection and Biodiversity Conservation Act 1999EPBC Regulationsmeans the Environment Protection and Biodiversity Conservation Regulations 2000Exploitation Revenuemeans any monies received by the Access Party from third parties arising from the Access Party's use of biological resources, including monies received for:
transferring, delivering, or providing access to Samples or Products; or
assigning or granting rights (including Intellectual Property) in Samples or Products; or
Sale,
but not including funds received by the Access Party for the explicit purpose of research.genetic resourceshas the meaning given by the EPBC Act and means any material of plant, animal, microbial or other origin that contains functional units of heredity and that has actual or potential value for humanity;Intellectual PropertyIncludes:
copyright
all rights in relation to inventions (including patent rights)
all rights in relation to plant varieties (including plant breeders rights); 
registered and unregistered trademarks (including service marks), designs, and circuit layouts, and 
all other rights resulting from intellectual activity;
know-how (whether patentable or not);Materialmeans any matter or thing the subject of any category of property rights including Intellectual Property;Productmeans Material produced, obtained, extracted or derived through R & D Activity;R & D Activitymeans research or development on a Sample or Product;Samplemeans a sample of biological resources collected from the Access Area under a permit issued in conjunction with this Agreement;Salemeans a payment received by the Access Party from a third party in consideration of the transfer to the third party of: 
Products; or
Material containing a Product,
by way of retail sale;Threshold Paymentmeans the percentage of gross Exploitation Revenue to be paid by the Access Party to the Commonwealth in accordance with this Deed.1.2. Interpretation
In this Deed, unless the contrary intention appears:
words importing a gender include any other gender
words in the singular include the plural and words in the plural include the singular
clause headings are inserted for convenient reference only and have no effect in limiting or extending the language of provisions to which they refer
words importing a person include a partnership and a body whether corporate or otherwise
all references to dollars are to Australian dollars
a reference to any legislation or legislative provision includes any statutory modification substitution or re-enactment of such legislation or legislative provision
where any word or phrase is given a defined meaning, any other part of speech or other grammatical form in respect of that word or phrase has a corresponding meaning
reference to an Item is to an Item in a schedule
the schedules and any attachments form part of this Deed
reference to a schedule (or an attachment) is a reference to a schedule (or an attachment) to this Deed, including as amended or replaced from time to time by agreement in writing between the parties and
a reference to writing means any representation of words, figures or symbols, whether or not in a visible form.

This Deed records the entire agreement between the parties in relation to its subject matter.
This Deed may only be varied by a formal deed of variation executed by both parties.
As far as possible all provisions must be construed so as not to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable.
If anything in this Deed is unenforceable, illegal or void then it is severed and the rest of this Deed remains in force.
Any reading down or severance of a particular provision does not affect the other provisions of this Deed.
If a provision cannot be read down, that provision will be void and severable and the remaining provisions will not be affected.
A provision of this Deed Lease will not be construed to the disadvantage of a Party solely on the basis that it proposed that provision.

This Deed takes effect only if an access permit is issued to the Access Party for the proposed access to biological resources to which the Deed relates.
This Deed commences on the date a permit is issued to the Access Party to access biological resources to which the Deed relates.

The operation of this Deed will be reviewed at the request of either party.
The first review may be conducted 2 years after the Commencement Date, and further reviews may be conducted at intervals not less than 2 years.
The timing and form of reviews will be agreed between the parties.
Either party may request that a review be conducted by an independent person agreed by the parties, and the other party will accede to that request.
Where a review is conducted by an independent person:
the parties will provide all reasonable assistance to, and respond to all reasonable requests for information and assistance from, the person conducting the review; and
the cost of the review will be borne by the party requesting the review unless both parties agree beforehand to share equally the costs of the review.
The requirements of this Deed relating to Confidential Information will apply to the conduct of a review and the parties will take all practicable steps to ensure that the person conducting a review complies with those requirements.
The parties will discuss the findings and recommendations of each review and may agree to vary the terms and conditions of this Deed in accordance with clause 1.3.2.
The Access Party will provide the Commonwealth with the benefits specified in Schedule 3.
The Access Party will provide the Commonwealth with the additional benefits (if any) specified in Schedule 4.
Where the access to biological resources under this Deed leads to the discovery of new taxa, the Access Party must offer voucher specimens for permanent loan to an Australian public institution that is a repository of taxonomic specimens of the same order or genus as those collected.
In offering voucher specimens for permanent loan, the Access Party may set reasonable conditions for use of the loaned specimens.
The operation of this clause survives the expiration or earlier termination of this Deed.


In performing this Deed the Access Party will:
comply with the conditions specified in Schedule 2;
carry on its activities to a high standard and in accordance with relevant best practice, including any policies, codes of practice or guidelines specified in Schedule 1 or notified by the Commonwealth from time to time;
comply with the conditions of the Access Party's access permits;
comply with all relevant laws of the Commonwealth and any applicable laws of the States, Territories or local government;
obtain and hold all necessary approvals and licences; 
liaise with the Department, provide any information the Department may reasonably require and comply with any reasonable request made by the Department; and
Where any activity under this Deed involves the use and care of living non-human vertebrate animals or tissue for scientific purposes, the Access Party will obtain review of and approval for such scientific purposes from a recognised animal ethics committee operating under the Australian Code of Practice for the Care and Use of Animals for Scientific Purposes or equivalent body.
The Access Party will comply with all laws, policies, codes of practice and guidelines relating to animal welfare as they apply to the jurisdiction where the research will be undertaken.
Subject to this clause, as between the parties the Access Party has the exclusive rights to all Samples and Products.

As between the Commonwealth and the Access Party (but without affecting the position between the Access Party and a third party) Intellectual Property arising from R & D Activity is vested or will vest in the Access Party.
Dealings with Samples and Products and Intellectual Property 
Without limiting clause 5.2.1, the Access Party may grant third parties the right to exploit the Intellectual Property arising from R&D Activity.
The Access Party will not:
transfer, deliver or provide access to Samples or Products; or
transfer, assign or grant rights (including Intellectual Property) in Samples or Products,
a third party unless:
it does so under an agreement on proper terms, being terms consistent with this Deed so far as practicable and which would normally be contained in a contract, agreement or transaction between persons dealing with each other at arms length and from positions of comparable bargaining power; or
the third party has entered into an agreement with the Commonwealth, or provided an enforceable undertaking to the Commonwealth, to provide the Commonwealth with the benefits and to comply with the requirements of this clause 5.3.2 in the event of any further dealing;
An agreement under clause 5.3.2.c must ensure the Commonwealth will continue to receive an equitable share of the benefits arising from subsequent use of the Samples or Products, or the rights in those Samples or Products by the third party and any subsequent parties.
An agreement under clause 5.3.2.c relating to use of Samples or Products or associated Intellectual Property by a third party for non-commercial purposes must include an undertaking not to carry out, or allow others to use the Material for commercial purposes unless a benefit-sharing agreement has been entered into with the Access Party
The Access Party must provide the Commonwealth with the name of each third party that an agreement is made with under clause 5.3.2 and details of the terms of the agreement.

Moneys payable by the Access Party to the Commonwealth under this Deed will be paid annually following delivery of Annual Reports in accordance with this Deed and within 28 days following receipt of a correctly rendered tax invoice.

Subject to this clause, all taxes, duties and government charges imposed or levied in Australia or overseas in connection with this Deed must be borne by the party liable for them.
Amounts payable by the Access Party to the Commonwealth under this Deed will include an amount to cover any liability of the Commonwealth for GST on any supplies made by the Commonwealth under this Deed which are taxable supplies within the meaning of the GST Act.
In relation to taxable supplies made under this Deed, the Commonwealth will issue the Access Party a tax invoice in accordance with the GST Act.

GST has the meaning given to it in the GST Act
GST ACT means A New Tax System (Goods and Services Tax) Act 1999 (Cth).

The Access Party will acknowledge the provision of access to biological resources in Commonwealth areas in all dealings with third parties with respect to R & D Activity.
The Access Party will ensure that an agreement with a third party under clause 5.3.2.c includes a requirement that the third party acknowledges the Commonwealth is the access provider to the source Sample.
The operation of this clause survives the expiration or earlier termination of the Term of this Deed.
The Access Party will maintain complete, accurate and up to date accounts and records in relation to this Deed that:
include appropriate audit trails for transactions performed;
separately record all receipts;
be kept in such a manner that permits them to be conveniently and properly accessed and audited;
be drawn in accordance with generally accepted accounting practices and standards.
Without limiting clause 8.1.1 the Access Party accounts and records will enable tracking of Exploitation Revenue to ensure correct delivery of Threshold Payments to the Commonwealth.
The Access Party must hold accounts and records in relation to the provision of the Samples for a period of 7 years from the date of expiry or termination of this Deed.
The operation of this clause survives the expiration or earlier termination of the Term of this Deed.
Within six (6) months of collecting Samples under this Deed or on or before 31 March first occurring after collection, whichever is the later, the Access Party will provide a report to the Commonwealth containing the following records for each Sample taken:
for each record about a Sample, a unique identifier for the sample that is also on a label attached to the sample or its container;
the date the Sample was taken;
the place from which the Sample was taken and a description of the habitat from which the Sample was collected;
an appropriate indication of the quantity or size of the Sample;
the scientific name of, or given to, the Sample;
the location of the Sample when first entered in the record;
the details about any subsequent disposition of the Sample, including the names and addresses of others having possession of the Sample or a part of the Sample.
Where a report under clause 8.2.1 includes a Sample of an undescribed species the Sample must be given a unique identifier, and the Access Party must subsequently advise the Commonwealth the scientific name of, or given to, the Sample when described.
A Collection Report may be included in an Annual Report under 8.3.
The Access Party will provide an initial Annual Report to the Commonwealth on activities under this Deed in the period from the date this Deed commences to the end of the calendar year immediately following completion of the collection of Samples.  The report will include, but need not be limited to, the following information for the reporting period:
identification of this Deed as the Benefit Sharing Agreement to which the report relates;
a summary of all Samples collected under this Deed (including collection locations, summary of taxa collected and isolated);
results of research on the biology of the taxa and ecology assessments of populations from which the Samples were collected;
species inventories, ecological data and imagery for sites sampled;
summary of screening results, or other genetic or biochemical research results;
summary of structures found;
publications and conference presentations arising from research into the Samples;
research opportunities and capacity building opportunities provided in Australia;
progress in establishing third party agreements as they relate to the Samples;
Exploitation Revenue received from third parties and the Threshold Payments payable to the Commonwealth; and
Subsequent Annual Reports will report on activities for the preceding calendar year (the reporting period) and will include, but need not be limited to, the following information for the reporting period
identification of this Deed as the Benefit Sharing Agreement to which the report relates;
results of research on the biology of the taxa and ecology assessments of populations from which the Samples were collected;
species inventories, ecological data and imagery for sites sampled not included in previous Annual Reports;
summary of screening results, or other genetic or biochemical research results;
publications and conference presentations arising from research into the Samples;
the progress toward commercialisation of Products;
research opportunities and capacity building opportunities provided in Australia;
progress in establishing third party agreements as they relate to the Samples and Products;
Exploitation Revenue received from third parties and the Threshold Payments payable to the Commonwealth; and
Disposal of Samples and Products.
Annual Reports will be provided on or before 31 March in the year following the year to which the report relates.

The Access Party will provide such other reports as may reasonably be requested by the Commonwealth from time to time. 
Annual Reports will be provided by the Access Party in two Parts:
the first part will only contain information considered by the Access Party to be non-confidential and may be made available to the public by the Commonwealth without prior consent of the Access Party, and may be published by the Access Party for publicity purposes;
the second part will contain information the Access Party reasonably requires to be treated as commercial-in-confidence for the purpose of protection of Intellectual Property,
and any material identified as commercial-in-confidence will be Confidential Information for the purposes of this Deed.All reports provided by the Access Party under this Deed will be provided in hard copy and digital copy.

Subject to clause 9.1.5, a Party must not, without the prior written consent of the other Party, use or disclose any Confidential Information of the other Party.
In giving written consent to use or disclose its Confidential Information, a Party may impose such conditions as it thinks fit, and the other Party agrees to comply with these conditions.
A Party may at any time require the other Party to arrange for the other Party's employees, servants or agents to give a written undertaking in the form of a Deed relating to the use and non-disclosure of the first Party's Confidential Information.
If a Party receives a request under clause 9.1.3, it must promptly arrange for all such undertakings to be given.
The obligations on a Party under this clause will not be taken to have been breached to the extent that Confidential Information:
is disclosed by a Party to its employees, servants or agents solely in order to comply with obligations, or to exercise rights, under this Deed;
is disclosed to a Party's internal management personnel, solely to enable effective management or auditing of activities related to this Deed;
is disclosed by the Department to the Department's Minister;
is shared by a Party within its organisation, or in the case of the Department with another Commonwealth department or agency, where this serves the Party's legitimate interests;
is disclosed by a Party, in response to a request by a House or a Committee of the Parliament of the Commonwealth of Australia;
is authorised or required by law to be disclosed;
is disclosed by a Party and is information in a material form in respect of which an interest, whether by licence or otherwise, in the Intellectual Property Rights in relation to that material form, has vested in, or is assigned to, the Party under this Deed or otherwise, and that disclosure is permitted by that licence or otherwise; or
is in the public domain otherwise than due to a breach of this clause.
Where a Party discloses Confidential Information to another person:
pursuant to clauses 9.1.5 (a), (b) or (d) - the disclosing Party must:
notify the receiving person that the information is Confidential Information; and
not provide the information unless the receiving person agrees to keep the information confidential; or
pursuant to clauses 9.1.5 (c) or (e) - the disclosing Party must notify the receiving person that the information is Confidential Information.
The obligations under this clause continue, notwithstanding the expiry or termination of the Term of this Deed:
in relation to an item of information described in Schedule 1 - for the period set out in the Schedule in respect of that item; and
in relation to any information that is agreed between the Parties after the Date of this Deed as constituting Confidential Information for the purposes of this Deed - for the period agreed by the Parties.
Nothing in this clause derogates from any obligation which the Access Party may have either under the Privacy Act, or under this Deed, in relation to the protection of Personal Information.

The Access Party indemnifies (and keeps indemnified) the Commonwealth against any: 
loss or liability incurred by the Commonwealth; 
loss of or damage to the Commonwealth's property; or
loss or expense incurred by the Commonwealth in dealing with any claim against the Commonwealth, including legal costs and expenses on a solicitor/own client basis and the cost of time spent, resources used, or disbursements paid by the Commonwealth; 
arising from: 
any act or omission by the Access Party in connection with this Deed, where there was fault on the part of the person whose conduct gave rise to that liability, loss, damage, or expense; 
any breach by the Access Party of its obligations under this Deed; 
the Access Party's liability to indemnify the Commonwealth under this clause will be reduced proportionally to the extent that any fault on the Commonwealth's part contributed to the relevant loss, damage, expense, or liability. 
The Commonwealth's right to be indemnified under this clause is in addition to, and not exclusive of, any other right, power, or remedy provided by law, but the Commonwealth is not entitled to be compensated in excess of the amount of the relevant liability, damage, loss, or expense. 
In this clause, "fault" means any negligent or unlawful act or omission or wilful misconduct. 
This operation of this clause survives the expiration or earlier termination of the Term of this Deed. 
The Access Party must, for as long as any obligations remain in connection with this Deed, have insurance as specified in Schedule 1.
Whenever requested, the Access Party must provide the Department, within 10 Business Days of the request, with evidence satisfactory to the Department that the Access Party has complied with its obligation to insure.
All insurance under this clause is to be taken out with an insurer recognised under Australian law, and whenever requested, the Access Party must provide the Department with evidence satisfactory to the Department that the Access Party has complied with its obligation to insure.
The operation of this clause survives the expiration or earlier termination of the Term of this Deed.

The Access Party will give to the Commonwealth, or to any persons authorised in writing by the Commonwealth's, access to premises occupied by the Access Party and permit those persons to participate in audits, inspect and take copies of any Material relevant to this Deed.
The rights referred to in clause 12.1.1 are subject to:
the provision of reasonable prior notice by the Commonwealth;
the Access Party's reasonable security procedures;
if appropriate, execution of a deed of confidentiality relating to non-disclosure of the Access Party's Confidential Information; and
the Commonwealth not unreasonably interfering with the Access Party's performance under this Deed in any material respect.
Without in any way affecting the statutory powers of the Auditor-General under the Auditor-General Act 1997 (Cth) and subject to the provisions of that Act, the Auditor-General is a person authorised for the purposes of this clause.
This clause applies for the Term of this Deed and for a period of 7 years from the date of termination of this Deed.
This Deed may be terminated at any time by mutual agreement in writing.

If the permit issued to the Access Party to access biological resources to which the Deed relates is cancelled the Commonwealth may immediately terminate this Deed by written notice to the Access Party.
If:
the Access Party fails to satisfy any of its obligations under this Deed;
the Access Party breaches any law of the Commonwealth, or of a State or Territory in relation to the subject matter of this Deed;
the Commonwealth is satisfied that any statement made, or document provided, to the Commonwealth by the Access Party in connection with this Deed is defective by reason of being incorrect, incomplete, false or misleading,
the Commonwealth may immediately terminate this Deed by giving written notice to the Access Party of the termination provided:
the Commonwealth has given notice to the Access Party; and
the Access Party fails within the period specified in the notice (being not less than 20 Business Days) to rectify or explain to the satisfaction of the Commonwealth the failure, breach or defect.

If this Deed is terminated under clause 13.2.2 or 13.2.3:
the Access Party will not thereafter use, or cause, permit or allow to be used:
any Samples or Products;
Intellectual Property arising from R & D Activity;
the Access Party will deliver to the Commonwealth or destroy, at the Commonwealth's discretion, all Samples and Products that are the subject of this Agreement; and
the Access Party's rights in all third party agreements referred to in clause 5.3.2, are assigned to the Commonwealth and the Access Party will do all things, and sign all documents, necessary to effect the assignment of those rights,
and the operation of this clause 13.2.2 survives the termination of this Deed.
Termination under this clause will not affect the right of the Access Party to sell Products or material containing a Product, by way of retail sale under commercial arrangements existing at the date of termination, and the Access Party's obligation to provide Exploitation Revenue in accordance with Schedule 3 will survive the termination.
Subject to clause 14.2.2, both Parties agree not to commence any legal proceedings in respect of any dispute arising under this Deed, which cannot be resolved by informal discussion, until the procedure provided by this clause has been utilised.

Both Parties agree that any dispute arising during the course of this Deed is dealt with as follows:
the Party claiming that there is a dispute will send the other a written notice setting out the nature of the dispute;
the Parties will try to resolve the dispute though direct negotiation by persons who they have given authority to resolve the dispute;
the Parties have 20 Business Days from the receipt of the notice to reach a resolution or to agree that the dispute is to be submitted to mediation or some alternative dispute resolution procedure; and
if:
there is no resolution of the dispute;
there is no agreement on submission of the dispute to mediation or some alternative dispute resolution procedure; or
there is a submission to mediation or some other form of alternative dispute resolution procedure, but there is no resolution within 20 Business Days of the submission, or such extended time as the Parties may agree in writing before the expiration of the 20 Business Days,
then, either Party may commence legal proceedings.
This clause does not apply to the following circumstances:
either Party commences legal proceedings for urgent interlocutory relief;
termination for default under clause 13 ;or
an authority of the Commonwealth, a State or Territory is investigating a breach or suspected breach of the law by the Access Party.
Despite the existence of a dispute, both Parties must (unless requested in writing by the other Party not to do so) continue to perform their respective obligations in accordance with this Deed.
The operation of this clause survives the expiration or earlier termination of the Term of this Deed.

The Access Party agrees not to represent itself, and to use its best endeavours to ensure that its Personnel do not represent themselves, as being an officer, employee, partner or agent of the Commonwealth, or as otherwise able to bind or represent the Commonwealth.
The Access Party is not by virtue of this Deed an officer, employee, partner or agent of the Commonwealth, nor does the Access Party have any power or authority to bind or represent the Commonwealth.

A failure or delay by a party to exercise any right it holds under this Deed will not operate as a waiver of that right.
A single or partial exercise by a party of any right it holds under this Deed will not prevent that party from exercising that right again or exercising that right to the extent it has not already been exercised.
In this clause, the word "right" means a right or remedy provided by this Deed or at law.

Except as otherwise provided by this Deed, the Access Party cannot novate its obligations and must not assign its rights, under this Deed without, in either case, prior approval in writing from the Commonwealth, which will not be unreasonably withheld.
The Access Party must not consult with any other person for the purposes of entering into an arrangement that will require novation of this Deed without first consulting the Commonwealth.

Any notice, request or other communication to be given or served pursuant to this Deed will be in writing and dealt with as follows:
if given by the Access Party to the Commonwealth - addressed as specified in Item D [Commonwealth Address for Notices] of Schedule 1 or
if given by the Commonwealth to the Access Party - addressed as specified in Item E [the Access Party Address for Notices] of Schedule 1.
Any notice, request or other communication is to be delivered by hand, sent by prepaid post or transmitted electronically.  If it is sent or transmitted electronically, a copy is to be sent to the addressee by prepaid post.
A notice will only be deemed as given and received:
if delivered by hand, upon delivery to the relevant address
if sent by pre-paid ordinary post within Australia, upon the expiration of 2 business days after the date on which it was sent
if transmitted electronically, upon receipt by the sender of an acknowledgment that the communication has been properly transmitted to the recipient and
in any event, if received after 5.00pm (local time in the place of receipt) on a Business Day or on a day that is not a Business Day, on the next Business Day.
Either party may, by written notice to the other, change its Representative.  

This Deed is to be construed in accordance with the laws of the Australian Capital Territory.




Public liability insurance to the value of at least $10 million per claim, or occurrence giving rise to a claim, in respect to activities undertaken under this Deed, where occurrence means either a single occurrence or a series of occurrences if these are linked or occur in connection with one another from one original cause, as the case may be.
Threshold payments will be paid annually by the Access Party within 28 days after receipt of a correctly tendered tax invoice.

The Access Party will offer a taxonomic duplicate of each Sample taken to an Australian public institution which has a statutory responsibility to maintain biological collections, or another institution approved by the Commonwealth, that is a repository of taxonomic specimens of the same order or genus as those collected for permanent loan.
Within 3 months of the date of offer under B1, the Access Party must notify the Commonwealth of the name of the Australian public institution(s) to which the duplicate Sample(s) have been offered, the date of the offer, a list of the Sample(s) offered and indicate which Samples were accepted by that institution.
The Access Party agrees that the offer of a taxonomic duplicate of Samples to an institution will include that they may be used for genetic analysis for the International Barcode of Life project.
The Access Party may impose reasonable conditions on offers made under B1and B3 including, without limiting the generality of the foregoing that the receiving institution may only use the specimens for non-commercial purposes.

The Access Party agrees that knowledge and information, which is not Confidential Information, contained in reports to the Commonwealth, that is relevant to the taxonomy, conservation or sustainable use of biological diversity may be transferred to Australian research institutions, the Atlas of Living Australia, the Census of Marine Life, managers of Commonwealth areas, or to Indigenous Access Providers for non-commercial purposes.
The Access Party will notify the Commonwealth of publications arising from research involving the Samples and supply an electronic or hard copy of such publications on request.

A range of monetary and non-monetary benefits may be provided in return for access to biological resources. A broad range of benefits are outlined in the Convention on Biological Diversity's 'Bonn Guidelines on Access to Genetic Resources and Equitable Sharing of the Benefits Arising out of their Utilization' (http://www.cbd.int/doc/publications/cbd-bonn-gdls-en.pdf).  The following clauses are offered by way of example only.  
The Access Party will keep the Commonwealth aware of all field trips that will include access to biological resources in the Access Area.
The Commonwealth has the option to request that additional research be conducted on these field trips.  
The Commonwealth will meet the reasonable costs of additional research under clause A.2 with terms and conditions to be negotiated with the Access Party separately to the negotiations around this Deed.

The Access Party will provide research funding to a local research institution to conduct research on species collected as Samples or the ecosystem from which they were collected.

The Access Party will enter into a joint venture with
an Australian research institution to conduct research on species collected as Samples or the ecosystem from which they were collected; 
an Australian company or research institution to undertake bioactivity screening, preclinical and/or clinical trials or otherwise develop commercial products containing the Sample or a Product.

The Access Party will transfer to an Australian research institution or to Indigenous Access Providers knowledge to make use of genetic resources, including biotechnology, or knowledge that is relevant to the conservation and sustainable use of biological diversity.  

The Access Party will transfer to an Australian research institution technology to make use of genetic resources, including biotechnology, or technology that is relevant to the conservation and sustainable use of biological diversity.  The terms of transfer will be negotiated with the receiving institution, and should be developed under fair and favourable terms, including concessional and preferential terms.

The Access Party will collaborate with Australian research institutions and contribute to scientific research and development programmes, particularly biotechnological research activities.