their joint responsibility in contributing to the development and maintenance of a nation-wide capability to counter terrorism;
the Commonwealth has an important national role and coordination responsibility to counter terrorism; and
the importance of cooperating fully to ensure that the Purpose is met.

The Commonwealth, States and Territories recognise:
State and Territory governments and their agencies have primary operational responsibility for dealing with a terrorist situation in their jurisdiction;
Commonwealth agencies have a role in a terrorist situation and will support the States and Territories as appropriate;
the Commonwealth will consult and seek agreement from the affected States and Territories before any national terrorist situation is declared and States and Territories agree not to withhold unreasonably such agreement;
the Commonwealth has responsibility in a declared national terrorist situation for determining policy and broad strategies in close consultation with affected States and Territories;
a national terrorist situation means those events declared to be a national terrorist situation, to include attacks on Commonwealth targets, multi-jurisidictional attacks, threats against civil aviation and those involving chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear materials; and
arrangements for a response to a national terrorist situation will recognise the operational integrity of, and will not inhibit effective response or consequence management by, State and Territory governments and their agencies.

The Commonwealth, States and Territories will:
take whatever action is necessary to ensure that terrorists can be prosecuted under relevant criminal law; and
review their legislation and counter-terrorism arrangements to make sure that they are sufficiently strong in support of the Purpose.


The Commonwealth, States and Territories will continue to:
improve Australia's counter-terrorist intelligence capability and to develop effective means for sharing intelligence; and
significantly upgrade the central coordination capability so that the operational arms of the Commonwealth, States and Territories can obtain the information and strategic advice necessary to respond rapidly and effectively.

To assist in this, all jurisdictions will apply appropriate standards and arrangements for the protection of national security information.

Commonwealth, States and Territories agree that the existing SAC-PAV will be reconstituted as the NCTC with a broader mandate to cover prevention and consequence management issues and with ministerial oversight arrangements.

The NCTC will be a high-level national body comprising representatives from the Commonwealth, States and Territories.

The NCTC will implement the framework set out in this Agreement including:

maintaining the National Counter-Terrorism Plan (NCTP) and associated documentation;
providing expert strategic and policy advice to heads of government and other relevant ministers;
coordinating an effective nation-wide counter-terrorist capability;
maintaining effective arrangements for the sharing of relevant intelligence and information between all relevant agencies in all jurisdictions; and
providing advice in relation to the administration of the special fund referred to in 5.2 below.

The NCTC will report annually to the Prime Minister, Premiers and Chief Ministers to facilitate ministerial oversight of the NCTC by the Council of Australian Governments (COAG).
The appropriateness of continued ministerial oversight of the NCTC by COAG will be reviewed by COAG in 2005.
There will be a review of the national counter-terrorism arrangements every three years.

The National Counter-Terrorism Plan (NCTP) sets out Australia's high-level strategy in preventing, and dealing with, acts of terrorism in Australia and its territories.  It will be the primary document on Australia's national counter-terrorism policy and arrangements.  The NCTP will be supported by documentation, including a handbook, that sets out in detail the procedures, structures and coordination arrangements necessary to ensure the prevention, response, investigation and management of the consequences of terrorism on a national basis.

This Agreement commences to operate immediately upon its execution by the Parties.
This Agreement may be varied from time to time by the unanimous agreement of the Parties.
A variation pursuant to this clause will be in writing, signed by all Parties to this Agreement, and notice thereof will immediately following such signature be given to all the Parties.

A Party to this Agreement may, by written notice to all other Parties, withdraw from this Agreement and such notice will take effect six months from the date of that notice.

This Agreement may be terminated at any time by agreement in writing by all the Parties and under any terms and conditions as agreed by all the Parties.

The objectives of the NCTC are to contribute to the security of the Australian community through:

providing expert strategic and policy advice to heads of government and other relevant ministers.  This will be achieved by:

effective counter-terrorism coordination through inter-jurisdictional and inter-agency cooperation;
development of evaluation and reporting methodologies to facilitate the annual reporting process;
reviewing current and emerging trends in terrorism;
reviewing, monitoring and advising on the adequacy of Australia's counter-terrorism legislation;
reviewing, monitoring and advising on the adequacy of Australia's counter-terrorism strategies and policies to ensure best practice; and
providing advice on the administration of the special fund.

ensuring an effective nation-wide counter-terrorism capability is maintained by:

developing strong cooperative relationships between all parties;
a standardised jurisdictional and cross-jurisdictional response capacity;
effective arrangements for the sharing of intelligence;
monitoring national standards in all training disciplines to achieve best practice;
effective command, control and coordination strategies;
consequence management plans to effectively counter terrorism; and
availability of appropriate systems and equipment;

reporting annually to the Prime Minister, Premiers and Chief Ministers on Australia's counter-terrorism preparedness and capability.


The NCTC will be a high-level national body comprising representatives from the Commonwealth, States and Territories.  While the members of the NCTC represent their respective governments, the NCTC itself will be responsible to all participating governments.

New Zealand will be invited in an observer capacity.

The Commonwealth will provide secretariat and executive support.

Meetings will be held in the States and Territories in rotation and be chaired by a representative of the host government.  The Commonwealth will co-chair meetings of the NCTC and a senior Commonwealth representative will act on behalf of the NCTC for matters requiring urgent out-of-session consideration.

Persons attending meetings of the NCTC will have a minimum SECRET national security clearance.

There will be a review of the national counter-terrorism arrangements every three years.

The NCTC will adopt a constitution governing its operation.