This Agreement shall be known as the NRL/RLPA Agreement 2007.  
Each Party agrees and acknowledges that:
by executing this Agreement they are entering into a legally binding agreement between all the Parties to this Agreement and it is binding on and legally enforceable against the Parties and the persons specified in clause 4.1; and
this Agreement is to be legally enforceable by the Parties.

This Agreement shall operate on and from 1 November 2006 until 31 October 2010, unless:
terminated earlier in accordance with the terms of this Agreement; or
extended by the written agreement of the Parties.
Any discussions in relation to the renewal of this Agreement shall commence at least six months prior to the nominal expiry date of 31 October 2010.
The RLPA and the NRL acknowledge that the agreement between the RLPA and the NRL dated 20 April 2005 ceases to operate on 31 October 2006, unless terminated earlier in accordance with the terms of that agreement.

The NRL and the RLPA will comply with the following Communications Protocol:
where the RLPA has an issue about which it has a genuine concern, either on behalf of a particular Player or on behalf of Players generally, the RLPA shall raise the issue with the NRL in writing, except in cases of urgency;
where the RLPA has raised any issues, the NRL and the RLPA will meet within 14 days to discuss the issue and attempt to reach an agreed position in relation to that issue.  If an agreed position is reached, the NRL and the RLPA will endeavour to issue an agreed joint press release; 
in the case of urgent issues, the RLPA will make every effort to contact the NRL and discuss issues as they arise, so as to ensure both the NRL and RLPA are fully abreast of all aspects of the issue, prior to making comments to the media;
where the NRL has an issue relating to the RLPA about which it has a genuine concern, the NRL shall raise the issue with the RLPA in writing, except in cases of urgency;
where the NRL has raised an issue relating to the RLPA, the NRL and the RLPA will meet within 14 days to discuss the issue and attempt to reach an agreed position in relation to that issue.  If an agreed position is reached, the NRL and the RLPA will endeavour to issue an agreed joint press release; and
in the case of urgent issues relating to the RLPA, the NRL will make every effort to contact the RLPA and discuss issues as they arise, so as to ensure both the NRL and RLPA are fully abreast of all aspects of the issue, prior to making comments to the media.

Where the NRL proposes to amend the NRL Rules (including any Schedules or Guidelines to the NRL Rules) and such amendments will directly affect the interests of Players, the NRL shall advise the RLPA of its intention to do so.
In any case where the NRL has advised the RLPA of its intention to amend the NRL Rules (including any Schedules to the NRL Rules), the RLPA shall be afforded a reasonable opportunity by the NRL to review the final draft of any change to the NRL Rules and to make submissions to it and/or consult with it concerning the proposed amendment. Further, the RLPA shall be afforded a reasonable opportunity to appear before the Board of the NRL to make representations concerning the proposed amendment.

the Communications Protocol set out in clause 6 above must be complied with by the Parties in relation to consultation in accordance with this clause; and 
the NRL does not require the agreement of the RLPA before introducing or amending the NRL Rules (including any Schedules or Guidelines to the NRL Rules).
In relation to any future broadcasting or internet rights arrangements, the NRL will include the RLPA in consultation to the same extent it includes the NRL Clubs in discussions in respect of such arrangements.  The RLPA agrees that it will not enter into any discussions regarding such arrangements.

The RLPA shall, in any case where the NRL requests it to do so, afford the NRL a reasonable opportunity to address the Board of the RLPA or the members of the RLPA in general meeting.

Where a grievance arises between the RLPA and the NRL, they shall confer with a view to resolving the grievance.   If the grievance relates to an issue covered by this Agreement, the NRL and RLPA shall refer the issue to an agreed third party for mediation.  If the parties are unable to agree, the President of the NRL Appeals Committee will appoint a mediator. The mediation must be conducted in accordance with the terms of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, unless otherwise agreed between the parties.  

The NRL will require that NRL Clubs only use the NRL Club Grant made to each NRL Club each Season for the purpose of paying Remuneration to their Players.
If an NRL Club goes into liquidation or some other form of insolvency:
the entitlement of the NRL Club to the NRL Club Grant for that Season ceases;
the NRL must pay any Player Guarantee Amount to the Players contracted to that NRL Club as follows:
first, Players who are not entitled to receive a Minimum Remuneration Package of $55,000 will be paid from the Player Guarantee Amount some or all of any unpaid contracted Remuneration owing for that Season (which will, where necessary, be paid on a pro rata basis); and
then, Players who are entitled to receive a Minimum Remuneration Package of $55,000 will be paid from the Player Guarantee Amount all or some of any unpaid contracted Remuneration owing for that Season (which will, where necessary due to insufficient funds, be paid on a pro rata basis).

If an NRL Club goes into liquidation or some other form of insolvency, the NRL, in consultation with the RLPA, will use its best efforts to ensure that all Players who were contracted to that NRL Club obtain a Playing Contract with another NRL Club.  
In fulfilling this commitment, the NRL agrees that, if it determines that such action is appropriate in the circumstances, it will introduce a special Salary Cap exemption, after  consultation with the RLPA.  In particular, if a Player: 
has been unable to obtain a contract at another rugby league club (whether or not an NRL Club); and 
has not received a contract offer from another rugby league club (whether or not an NRL Club) which matches his playing fee under his Playing Contract with his NRL Club, then the NRL will, after consultation with the RLPA, consider introducing a special Salary Cap exemption for this Player and shall make a decision as to that matter. The Player may seek that the decision be reviewed by the NRL Appeals Committee in accordance with the provisions of the ACP Rules.
The NRL and the RLPA recognise the importance of a Salary Cap and acknowledge that the Salary Cap limits, in a reasonable way, the remuneration that may be paid by, or on behalf of, any one NRL Club to its Players.
The NRL will increase the Total Club Salary Cap as follows:
for the 2007 Season the Total Club Salary Cap will be $4.0 million;
for the 2008 Season the Total Club Salary Cap will be $4.0 million;
for the 2009 Season the Total Club Salary Cap will be $4.1 million; and
for the 2010 Season the Total Club Salary Cap will be $4.1 million.
For the avoidance of doubt, the Total Club Salary Cap figure will include the Salary Cap plus the Veteran Players Allowance, the Sponsor Servicing Allowance, NRL contributions to the Players Retirement Account in respect of that NRL Club and any amount remitted by the NRL to the RLPA, and will be subject to the PCR Rules.    
The NRL agrees that for Seasons 2008, 2009 and 2010, if the NRL Club Grant is increased, the Total Club Salary Cap will be increased by at least 30% of the increase in the NRL Club Grant.  The RLPA may direct that any increase in the Total Club Salary Cap pursuant to this clause be implemented as an increase to the amount to be paid by the NRL to the Player Retirement Account instead of as an increase to the Salary Cap component. The NRL agrees that any increases in the monies paid to NRL Clubs will be made via the NRL Club Grant. 
In the event that the NRL has a one-off net profit of greater than $10 million in any given Season (an 'Unexpected Net Profit'), the NRL will negotiate with the RLPA in relation to the percentage of the Unexpected Net Profit to be distributed to Players.  Increases in the NRL Club Grant which result from an Unexpected Net Profit will be subject to clause 11.4.
To the extent that any Player's Playing Contract provides for adjustments to the Player's remuneration on the basis of increases to the Salary Cap, it is acknowledged that the inclusion of the Allowances, NRL contributions to the Players Retirement Account and any funding remitted by the NRL to the RLPA in the Total Club Salary Cap is not an increase in the Salary Cap for the purpose of such adjustments to the Player's remuneration.
The SCA will provide a list detailing the names of the Top 25 Players, who have been nominated in each Club's Pre Season Statutory Declaration, to the Chief Executive of the RLPA within 14 days of the NRL receiving the Declaration.
The NRL agrees to vary the PCR Rules in relation to the terms of the Sponsor Servicing Allowance so as to ensure all Players are able to access this maximum $200,000 allowance without restriction. 
The NRL agrees to vary the PCR Rules in relation to the eligibility criteria for the Veteran Player Allowance to make the allowance available for NRL Clubs with Players who have at least eight years' continuous service at that NRL Club since their first appearance in Grade Football.
The NRL agrees to vary the PCR rules in relation to the Third Party Agreement Allowance ('TPA Allowance') so that:
from the 2007 Season the TPA Allowance will be increased to $150,000 per NRL Club; 
if more than 75% of NRL Clubs access the full amount of the TPA Allowance, the SCA will raise the allowance by a further $50,000 to $200,000 per NRL Club;
the TPA Allowance will be expanded so it is available to three of the Top Six Players at each NRL Club, to a maximum of $50,000 per Player; 
where an NRL Club has three of its Top Six Players utilising some, but not all, of the NRL Club's TPA Allowance, the NRL Club may apply to the NRL to make the balance of the available TPA Allowance available to its remaining three of its Top Six Players; and
a Top Six Player of an NRL Club may apply to have more than one Third Party Agreement approved, subject to the following conditions:
the minimum value of an individual  Third Party Agreement for a Player is $10,000; and
the total maximum value of Third Party Agreements for a Player is $50,000. 
The NRL will conduct an annual review of the above allowances in consultation with the RLPA.
The NRL Rules (including the Schedules to those Rules) form part of the Playing Contract and their observance is a fundamental obligation on the part of all Players.  
The NRL will amend the PCR Rules so that the protocol set out in clauses 13.5 to 13.6 below will apply to any requirement of a Player to produce for the inspection of the SCA, or the NRL, personal financial records such as income tax returns, bank statements, group certificates or the like.  
The protocol may only be used to request access to Player records which relate to his Remuneration.  The protocol cannot be used to request access to the personal financial records of a Player's partner, family members or other associates.
For the avoidance of doubt, the NRL will not penalise any Player for his involvement in a Salary Cap breach, except in the case of an exceptional circumstance.  An exceptional circumstance is understood to mean a circumstance where a Player is knowingly concerned or involved in a breach of the PCR Rules.
In any case where the SCA has good cause, through the existence of reliable evidence, to suspect that an NRL Club has failed to make complete disclosure to the SCA or to the NRL of the Remuneration paid to its Players, and after the SCA has used all other reasonably available means of verifying that Remuneration, the SCA may seek verification of the Remuneration paid to a particular Player or Players by that NRL Club in accordance with the following procedure:
in the first instance, the SCA may ask the Player concerned to produce specific personal financial records and, if the Player does not object, the Player shall produce the specified records to the SCA who may inspect them;
if the Player objects to production, then the matter will be referred to the SCR Committee;
if the matter is referred to the SCR Committee:
the SCA shall provide to the SCR Committee: 
details of the suspicion and evidence that good cause exists for his suspicion;
details of the specific financial records the SCA requires the Player to produce; and
details of the alleged breach of the NRL Rules; 
The SCA will provide this in the format of a 'Terms of Reference' setting out the details of the suspicion and evidence that good cause exists for his suspicion, specific records which are required to be produced by the Player and the details of the alleged breach of the NRL Rules.  This information shall be provided a minimum of 72 hours in advance of the meeting of the SCR Committee; and
after hearing from the SCA the SCR Committee shall determine by majority decision whether good cause exists;
if the SCR Committee determines that good cause exists, the SCA may proceed further, in accordance with the steps set forth in subclauses 13.5(e) to (m) below;
if the SCR Committee determines that good cause does not exist, neither the SCA nor the NRL may further pursue any requirement of the Player to produce his personal financial records, unless new evidence comes to hand, in which event this procedure must be started afresh;
where the SCR Committee has determined, that good cause exists, the SCA shall provide the Player (and his duly appointed representative or the RLPA or both, as requested by the Player) concerned with the names of a panel of three chartered accountants from the 'top four' chartered accountant firms, each from different firms ('the Panel'), and each of whom will provide a written undertaking to the Player to keep any information or the contents of any documents disclosed to him or her pursuant to this procedure strictly confidential, save to the extent that disclosure is hereby permitted;
within 48 hours of being provided with the Panel: 
the Player must select a chartered accountant to conduct the verification ('Selected Chartered Accountant'); and 
the Player or his duly appointed representative must advise the SCA of the name of the Selected Chartered Accountant;
the SCA shall then make arrangements for the Selected Chartered Accountant to be retained at the cost of the NRL to verify the Remuneration paid to that Player in accordance with the relevant Terms of Reference;
thereafter, and within five business days of the Selected Chartered Accountant being retained, the Player must attend on the Selected Chartered Accountant and produce such personal financial records as have been specified in the Terms of Reference, for review by the Selected Chartered Accountant. The NRL will pay for or reimburse all reasonable professional accounting or bank fees of the Player directly incurred in the production of these records.  During any attendance on the Selected Chartered Accountant the Player may be represented by the RLPA and/or a second representative at the request of the Player;
the Selected Chartered Accountant shall, in the presence of the Player and, if applicable, his representatives, examine the records produced in the presence of the Player and then return the documents to the Player;
the Selected Chartered Accountant shall then provide a report in writing to the NRL and the Player (and, if requested by the Player, the RLPA) based upon his or her examination of the records so produced (identifying the same) detailing the Player's compliance with the NRL Rules; and
if the Selected Chartered Accountant has determined that, on the evidence produced, there has been no breach of the NRL Rules, the report will state that to be the case but will not convey any other information in relation to the Player; and
if the Selected Chartered Accountant has determined that, on the evidence produced, there has been a breach of the NRL Rules, the report will confirm the breach and the extent of the breach but will not convey any other information in relation to the Player;
if, however, the Selected Chartered Accountant is in doubt as to whether particular income may properly be categorised as Remuneration, the Selected Chartered Accountant may consult the SCR Committee on a strictly confidential basis and thereby seek its opinion; and
once the certification of the Selected Chartered Accountant is received by the NRL, it shall constitute irrebuttable evidence of the contents of the records that were examined in any proceedings taken in accordance with the NRL Rules.

there will not be 'good cause' for a suspicion unless that suspicion is supported by some independent evidence; and
nothing in the NRL Rules or Schedules to the NRL Rules (including the PCR Rules) will be construed so as to permit the taking of breach proceedings against a Player for his participation in or contribution to the breach by an NRL Club of the PCR Rules relating to the Salary Cap unless that Player has participated in or has contributed to that breach knowing that his participation or contribution would assist his NRL Club to breach those NRL Rules.

The NRL agrees to issue Players with a guideline that explains and provides examples of the way in which Third Party Agreements (as that expression is defined in the PCR Rules) should operate.
RLPA has a right to consult with the SCA or the NRL concerning any determination made by the SCA to the effect that an arrangement entered into by a Player was a Third Party Agreement (as that expression is defined in the PCR Rules) and that the Remuneration paid to the Player under that arrangement was included in the Salary Cap Calculation (as that expression is defined in the PCR Rules).
If, after the above process has been followed, a Player wishes to review the determination made by the SCA concerning a Third Party Agreement, then the Player, or his duly appointed representative, may request a review by the SCR Committee to be conducted as described in clause 13.5(c).  On any such review, the Player concerned, the NRL Club concerned, and the SCA may appear before the SCR Committee, adduce relevant evidence and make submissions, following which the SCR Committee shall decide by majority decision whether the determination of the SCA should be upheld, set aside or varied, which decision by the SCR Committee shall thereafter be final and binding on the NRL, the NRL Club concerned and the Player concerned. 

The ACP Rules will be amended by the NRL so as to provide that the NRL Appeals Committee will be constituted as follows:
a legally qualified person to be appointed by the Board of the NRL to act as President;
one member, who is not legally qualified, to be appointed by the RLPA; and
one member, who is not legally qualified, to be appointed by the Chairman of the Council of the NRL Clubs. 
For the avoidance of doubt, the persons nominated by the RLPA and the Chairman of the Council of the NRL Clubs will be required to have a recognised standing within the game of Rugby League and will be expected to approach the task from an independent viewpoint.

The NRL acknowledges that if, during the term of the Agreement, a new President of the NRL Appeals Committee needs to be appointed the NRL will consult with the RLPA prior to making such appointment.
Where the interests of a particular Player or Players in general might be affected by the outcome of a proceeding before the NRL Appeals Committee, other than appeals from decisions of the NRL Judiciary, the NRL Drugs Tribunal or any similar body exercising a disciplinary function over Players, and at least one of the Players whose interests might be affected wishes the RLPA to represent that Player, the RLPA will be entitled to seek leave to intervene and, if leave to intervene is granted by the President of the NRL Appeals Committee, the RLPA shall be entitled to be legally represented and to make submissions as to the outcome.
To remove any doubt, whilst the RLPA will not have an automatic right to intervene or a separate right to be heard in:
proceedings before the NRL Appeals Committee which are appeals from decisions of the NRL Judiciary, the NRL Drugs Tribunal or any similar body exercising a disciplinary function over Players; or
hearings of the NRL Judiciary, the NRL Drugs Tribunal or any similar body exercising a disciplinary function over Players, 
it may represent a Player in those hearings if the Player agrees to that occurring in lieu of any other representation of him, providing that leave to do so is given by the person or persons conducting those hearings.  
The NRL will conduct an annual review of the NRL Appeals Committee in consultation with the RLPA.

An authorised representative(s) of the RLPA may inspect the NRL's annual audited financial statements at the NRL's offices within 14 days of the NRL receiving a written request from the RLPA to do so and provided that the authorised representative provides an undertaking in relation to confidentiality in respect of the financial statements. 


The NRL will use its best endeavours to ensure that Players will be provided, when selected for a Representative Match, with a representative agreement that details remuneration and contributions to the Representative Player Account including remuneration for shadow and emergency reserve Players for Representative Matches and Players not participating for entire tours or camps and that provides for at least the relevant payment from the payment scheduled set out under clause 17.1 and the relevant daily allowance set out under subclause 17.3.  The NRL agrees to further consult with the RLPA with the aim of introducing more detailed guidelines for the payment of representative Players when they are not able to complete a full Tri-Nations Tournament or Kangaroo Tour. 
In addition to the representative payments provided for under clause 17.1, Players representing Australia will receive the following daily allowances: A$100 when in Australia, NZ$120 when in New Zealand and GBP80 when in Europe.
The NRL will use its best endeavours to ensure that the ARL discusses with the RLPA the forecast budget for the Rugby League World Cup and the level and structure of the tour payment, however, under no circumstances will the total payments and contingent benefits be less than $10,000 per Player, comprising a payment of $5,000 to the Player and a contribution to the Representative Player Account of $5,000.  
Contributions to the Representative Player Account are made in accordance with the  MOU.  
The NRL and the RLPA agree to work together to approach the New Zealand Rugby League about the scale of representative payments for New Zealand NRL Players.
The NRL and RLPA agree to work with the ARL to implement and apply a guideline for the timing of representative Player payments with the aim of having these payments made within 60 days of the completion of the representative commitment.

For the 2007, 2008, 2009 and 2010 Season, the NRL will contribute to the Players Retirement Account a total amount of $1,280,000 during each Season in relation to all Players in NRL Clubs Top 25 Training Squads on the following basis:
Where a Player is nominated to be in the Top 25 Training Squad at a Club for a third consecutive Season the Player will receive an entitlement to 4 units for that Season;
Where a Player is nominated to be in the Top 25 Training Squad at a Club for any Season which is not at least the Player's third consecutive Season, the Player will receive an entitlement to 3 units;
The value of each unit is calculated according to the following formula:($1,280,000 + any additional distributions made according to Clause 18.3)

For the purposes of this clause, in respect of the 2005 Season and 2006 Season, a Player will be deemed to have been nominated to be in the Top 25 Training Squad of the NRL Club if he was in the NRL Club's Top 25 Salary Cap at the end of the relevant Season.  
Contributions to the Players Retirement Account are made in accordance with the MOU.  
The RLPA and the NRL acknowledge that the operation of some of the clauses in this Agreement may result in an increase in the amounts contributed by the NRL to the Players Retirement Account.

The NRL and the RLPA are committed to ensuring that NRL Clubs maintain minimum standards of welfare and educational services for Players.  The NRL will consult with the RLPA regarding these welfare and educational services.
The NRL will provide $528,000 per annum for the purpose of making available education and welfare benefits in respect of the Players in accordance with the education and welfare guidelines determined by the NRL/RLPA Education and Welfare Committee from time to time.   
In addition to the NRL/RLPA Education and Welfare Committee that is already established, where the NRL establishes a committee to consider issues relating to the education and welfare of Players, it will invite the RLPA to nominate a representative to the Committee.  
Where a Player begins a study course that is subsidized by the NRL/RLPA Education and Welfare Committee during his NRL playing career and completion of the study course extends into retirement from the NRL as a professional Rugby League Player, the Player shall be entitled to continue to receive that subsidy while the Player continues to study through the course completion.  
A retiring Player may be entitled to receive education and welfare benefits for himself and his family for a period of up to two years from the date of the Player's formal retirement as a professional Rugby League Player. An entitlement to benefits under this clause 20 will be subject to approval by the NRL/RLPA Education and Welfare Committee on a case by case basis and will be funded from a discretionary fund established by the NRL/RLPA Education and Welfare Committee.

The NRL and RLPA agree to work co-operatively towards the identification of potential hazards to Players, consult as to appropriate measures to reduce the risk of harm to Players through those hazards and together implement those measures, so far as is it is reasonably practicable to do so.
The NRL will maintain a committee dealing with occupational health and safety that includes RLPA representation.  This OH&S committee must meet at least biannually to:
discuss general industry matters relating to OH&S, including but not limited to heat limits and playing surface conditions; and
establish a protocol for assessing such risks and the elimination or control of such risks. 

The NRL will put in place an insurance policy which will provide death or significant permanent disability cover for Players in each NRL Club's Top 25 Training Squad. The maximum benefit payable to the Player or his estate is $500,000.   The NRL must require each NRL Club to nominate the Players in their Top 25 Training Squad to be covered by the insurance policy for the following year, by 30 November each year.  Each Player in an NRL Club's Top 25 Training Squad will be covered by the insurance policy from 12am on 1st December that year until 30 November of the following calendar year. 
Any NRL Player, who is not a member of an NRL Club's Top 25 Training Squad, who plays in an NRL Competition match during the Season will be covered from 12am on the day of his debut that Season to 30 November of that calendar year.
Those Players covered by the insurance policy under clause 22.1 or clause 22.2 will have continuous cover for the relevant period described above for death or significant permanent disability, whether or not a claim under the insurance policy is made by the Player in relation to the Player's participation in an NRL Competition match.
The RLPA and NRL agree to implement an independent compulsory Agent Accreditation Scheme by no later than 30 April 2007 or such later date, if agreed.  
It is intended that the terms of the Agent Accreditation Scheme will provide that the NRL will not register any Playing Contract that has been negotiated on behalf of a Player by a Player Agent who has not been accredited pursuant to the compulsory Agent Accreditation Scheme.

The RLPA acknowledges the potential for conflicts between RLPA sponsors and NRL sponsors, NRL partners, NRL Club sponsors and NRL Club partners and agrees that: 
it will not enter into new sponsorships during the term of this agreement without the express written agreement of the NRL; and
it will not renew any existing sponsorships with sponsors that conflict with NRL Sponsors, NRL partners, NRL Club sponsors and NRL Club partners, except that it may renew its sponsorship arrangement with The Sun Herald on the same terms as are in place as at 31 May 2006.
The NRL will notify the RLPA of whether it agrees or disagrees with a proposed new RLPA sponsorship within 7 days of receiving a written summary of the proposed arrangement from the RLPA.
The NRL will assist the RLPA to obtain sponsorships as appropriate subject to agreement being reached between the RLPA and the NRL about how the funds obtained through these sponsorships are to be utilised.  It is acknowledged agreement may be reached to direct the net funds provided by these sponsorships to Player benefits, such as support of an annual ball, other Player functions, a Player charity, grass roots rugby league or the Players Retirement Account.
The NRL will work with the RLPA to provide benefit offers from NRL sponsors to Players.  The NRL and RLPA will agree to guidelines detailing the circumstances in which other organisations can provide benefit offers that may be provided to Players, so as to avoid conflicts with the NRL and NRL Club sponsorship programs, and to protect the NRL and NRL Club intellectual property rights.

The NRL recognises that all Players have the right to earn additional income through work in the area of promotions, marketing and advertising, providing such work does not breach the PCR Rules or conflict with an individual Player's obligations pursuant to his Playing Contract or, relevantly, conflict with the grant of exclusivity made to sponsors of the NRL, the Player's NRL Club or representative bodies.  
In recognition of these competing objectives, the NRL and the RLPA agree to the phasing in over time (once existing contractual relationships come to an end) of the following limitations:
a maximum of six protected sponsors, each of an annual sponsorship value (cash plus contra) of a minimum of $75,000, for each NRL Club;
a maximum of six protected sponsors for the NRL, except that, in addition exclusivity will be offered and provided to the NRL's media partners (eg. Channel 9, 2GB, Fox Sports and News Limited);
a maximum of six protected sponsors in total for representative bodies.
The NRL will provide to the RLPA a list that details the sponsors nominated under clause 25.3 by 28 February each year and where more than six sponsors have an existing exclusivity arrangement, the date when these arrangements expire, provided that, if as at 28 February of the year, the NRL is in negotiations with one or more sponsors and has made reasonable efforts to finalise those negotiations prior to 28 February but has been unable to do so, the NRL may provide the list to the RLPA on or before the commencement of the Season.  Nomination of protected sponsors by Clubs and representative teams will be co-ordinated by the NRL.  
Where an NRL sponsor or a sponsor of a representative body utilises an image of a single Player or up to, but not more than, three clearly identifiable Players in an advertising campaign for the promotion of their product or service, then the NRL will ensure that the sponsor enters into a commercial arrangement with the relevant Player or Players prior to the advertising campaign commencing. To avoid doubt, this does not mean that the use of Player images for promotion or development of rugby league requires the payment of a commercial fee.
NRL agrees to assist the RLPA in its efforts to obtain a tax ruling to enable all Players or certain classes of Players on a case by case basis to quarantine earnings relating to the use of intellectual image and marketing property.  If the tax ruling is obtained, the NRL agrees to support associated changes to the Playing Contract.  Where a Ruling applicable to certain classes of Players is unable to be obtained, the NRL will work with the RLPA to explore alternative ways to ensure that all Players, where appropriate, have the opportunity to quarantine earnings relating to use of their Intellectual Property. 
Where the NRL has appointed a licensee for the commercial sale of signed official Grand Final, State of Origin, Australian test team, captain, coach or Dally M winner or any other NRL Official Licensed Memorabilia, each Player will be entitled to a payment per signature as follows:
$10 per item for team signed products;
$20 per item for product carrying dual signatories; and
$30 per item for individual products, 
provided that this scale does not apply for charity or sponsor fulfilment items.
For the avoidance of doubt this scale will not apply to NRL Club produced license memorabilia (produced in accordance with approval from NRL Licensing) or memorabilia subject to clause 26.2.  Payment scales for NRL Club produced licensed memorabilia are to be determined by the respective Club after consultation with their Players.  
For NRL Official Licensed Memorabilia items relating to individuals, such as pieces in relation to the reaching of a career milestone or achieving an elite status in the game, but which are not covered by clause 26.1, the fee payable to the Player will be determined by agreement between the Player, or his agent, and the licensee, however the fee shall be no less than $30 per signature per item.
The NRL or the NRL Club will provide prior notification to the Player of the purpose for which the Player is required to sign memorabilia, in particular where that memorabilia is NRL Official Licensed Memorabilia subject to the payments detailed in clause 26.1.
In relation to official NRL trading cards, the NRL agrees to provide every Player individually featured in an official NRL trading card with an annual payment of 80% of the royalty rate received by the NRL in respect of that individual card.   Further, the NRL agrees to provide the RLPA with access to the details of any licensing fee income that the NRL receives in relation to the sale of official NRL trading cards.

Subject to subclause 27.2, during the NRL Finals Series, the NRL will directly provide four reserved tickets to the 17 Players nominated for each team published in Big League on the Wednesday preceding the relevant match.  
For Representative Matches played in Australia, the NRL will use its best endeavours to ensure that the appropriate rugby league body will directly provide four premium tickets to the 17 Players published in each official team list preceding the relevant match.  If a Player is participating in a Test played overseas, the NRL will use its best endeavours to ensure that the ARL uses its best endeavours to provide up to four premium tickets to the Player for family or friends, providing the Player provides at least five days' notice of this request to the ARL.
The availability of tickets to matches will be dependant upon the venue and the RLPA acknowledges that, although the NRL will make its best efforts to fulfil its obligation under clause 27.2 , this will not always be possible.
The NRL will use its best endeavours to ensure that for Representative Matches played in Australia the appropriate rugby league body pays for all reasonable travel and accommodation expenses incurred by a Player in the authorised performance of his obligations to participate in that Representative Match. 
Where a Player has been injured at an away game involving air travel, and the team's Medical Officer is of the opinion that special travel arrangements are necessary for the Player's comfort and/or recuperation, the NRL will use its best endeavours to liaise with the NRL travel agency and/or airline in an attempt to secure suitable return travel arrangements which may, depending on the type of injury, include the provision of seating with additional leg room (such as that afforded by seating fronting on to an exit or seating in the business class section) provided such seating is available on the flight on which the Player is scheduled to travel, with any additional cost being met by the Player's team.
The NRL will ensure that each RLPA board member receives an 'All Areas Access' pass to enable authorised representatives of the RLPA to access the change rooms and tunnel at all NRL Competition matches and Representative Matches. 
The NRL will provide to the RLPA four reserved seats for each match in the Finals Series of the NRL Competition and each Representative Match and, where the NRL has sufficient car parking spaces available for those matches and the RLPA requests it, the NRL will provide one car park pass for each of those matches.

the NRL Club will use its reasonable endeavours to comply with that request, subject to its pre-existing ticketing commitments; and
in no case shall more than four premium seats be allocated to the RLPA for any regular season NRL Competition match.
Where tickets for an NRL Competition match have been provided to the RLPA in accordance with clause 31.1 above, the NRL Club will provide one car park pass to the RLPA for that match, provided that:
the NRL Club has sufficient car parking space available; and
the RLPA has included a written request to the NRL Club for the car park pass with its request for premium seating.
Where a Player has authorised an NRL Club in writing to deduct RLPA membership contributions from amounts payable by the NRL Club to the Player, the NRL Club must deduct those RLPA membership contributions in accordance with the deduction authority.  Payments will be forwarded to the RLPA:
after the presentation of a completed deduction authority to the NRL Club's accounts department, provided such authorities are received by 15 March of the relevant year; and
within 14 days of the associated deduction of those amounts from the Player's monthly pay.

where the breach is capable of rectification and that breach has not been rectified within 30 days of the RLPA being requested to do so by the NRL in writing; or
where the breach is not capable of rectification,
the NRL may terminate this Agreement upon the giving of 30 days' notice in writing.
Despite clause 33.1, if the RLPA or the RLPA Officers or both do not comply with clause 4.4 of this Agreement, the Agreement will terminate with immediate effect.

where the breach is capable of rectification and that breach has not been rectified within 30 days of the NRL being requested to do so by the RLPA in writing; or
where the breach is not capable of rectification,
the RLPA may terminate this Agreement upon the giving of 30 days' notice in writing.
The RLPA agrees that neither it nor any of its members, nor agents acting on its behalf, will sue or support financially or administratively or voluntarily provide testimony or a statement or an affidavit in, any suit against the NRL or the NRL Partnership with respect to any claim relating to conduct by the NRL or the NRL Partnership permitted by the contractual arrangements giving effect to this Agreement or the current NRL Rules (including all Schedules and Guidelines to the NRL Rules).  For the avoidance of doubt, this clause does not prevent the RLPA or a member from taking action (not including industrial action) for a breach of this Agreement or from using the dispute settling procedure in this Agreement.
No party to this Agreement shall be entitled to take any industrial action during the term of this Agreement.  

A party giving notice under this Agreement must do so in writing.  Without limiting the ways in which a written notice may be sent, a notice given in accordance with this clause 35 is taken to be received:
if hand delivered, on delivery;
if sent by prepaid post, 3 business days after the date of posting; or
if sent by facsimile, when the sender's facsimile system generates a message confirming successful transmission of the total number of pages of the notice unless, within 8 business hours after that transmission, the recipient informs the sender that it has not received the entire notice.

A party's failure or delay to exercise a power or right does not operate as a waiver of that power or right. The exercise of a power or right does not preclude:
its future exercise; or
the exercise of any other power or right.
The variation or waiver of a provision of this Agreement, or a party's consent to a departure from a provision by another party, shall be ineffective unless in writing, executed by the parties. 

Each party must pay its/his/her own costs and disbursements connected with the negotiation, preparation and execution of its/his/her rights under this Agreement.
This Agreement shall be personal to the parties and shall not be assigned by a party without the prior written consent of the other.
If anything in this Agreement is unenforceable, illegal or void then it shall be severed from this Agreement and the remaining provisions shall constitute the agreement of the parties.

The RLPA agrees that this Agreement is in full settlement of all existing claims made by the RLPA on the NRL.  There will be no extra claims by the RLPA for the duration of this Agreement.

This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement between the Parties in connection with its subject matter and supersedes all representations, previous agreements or understandings between the Parties in connection with its subject matter.

The mediator will be neutral and impartial.  The mediator will assist the parties to attempt to resolve the Grievance by helping them to:
systematically isolate the issues in dispute;
develop options for the resolution of these issues;
explore the usefulness of these options; and
meet their interests and needs.

The mediator may meet with the parties together or separately.
The mediator will not:
give legal or other professional advice to any party; or
impose a result on any party; or
make decisions for any party.
The mediator will not accept an appointment in relation to any proceedings concerning the Grievance.
Neither party will take action to cause the mediator to breach Clause 5.


The mediator must, prior to commencement of the mediation, disclose to the parties to the best of the mediator's knowledge any prior dealings with any of the parties as well as any interest in the Grievance.
If in the course of the mediation the mediator becomes aware of any circumstances that might reasonably be considered to affect the mediator's capacity to act impartially, the mediator must immediately inform the parties of these circumstances.  The parties will then decide whether the mediation will continue with that mediator or with a new mediator appointed by the parties.

The parties must co-operate with the mediator and each other during the mediation.
The parties must attend the mediation with authority to resolve the Grievance within parameters that can reasonably be anticipated.
At the mediation each party may have one or more other persons, including legally qualified persons, to assist and advise them.

Any information disclosed to a mediator in private is to be treated as confidential by the mediator unless the party making the disclosure states otherwise.  Such information is also to be regarded as 'without prejudice'.

The parties and the mediator will not disclose to anyone not involved in the mediation any information or document given to them during the mediation unless required by law to make such a disclosure.
The parties and the mediator agree that subject to Clauses 18 and 19, the following will be without prejudice and will not be disclosed in, or be the subject of a subpoena to give evidence or to produce documents, in any proceedings in respect of the Grievance:
Any settlement proposal whether made by a party or the mediator.
The willingness of a party to consider any such proposal.
Any statement made by a party or the mediator during the mediation.
Any information prepared for the mediation.

A party may terminate the mediation at any time after consultation with the mediator.
The mediator may terminate the mediator's involvement in the mediation if, after consultation with the parties, the mediator feels unable to assist the parties to achieve resolution of the Grievance.

If resolution is reached at the mediation, the terms of the resolution must be written down and signed by the parties before they leave the mediation.
Any party may enforce the terms of the agreed resolution by judicial proceedings.
For the purposes of Clause 18, any party may call evidence of the agreed resolution including evidence from the mediator and any other person engaged in the mediation.

The mediator will not be liable to a party for any act or omission in the performance of the mediator's obligations under this agreement unless the act or omission is fraudulent.
The parties together and separately indemnify the mediator against any claim for act or omission in the performance of the mediator's obligations under this agreement unless the act or omission is fraudulent.

The parties together and separately will be liable to the mediator for the mediator's fees described in Schedule 3.  The parties will share equally all the other costs of the mediation described in Schedule 3.
If the mediation does not result in an agreed resolution, the costs of the mediation will be costs in the cause, ie costs of the mediation (including those of any legal representatives  attending the mediation) will be treated as part of the overall costs in subsequent court proceedings.

