This agreement commences on the date of execution by all parties and, unless terminated earlier under clause 14, continues until the date which is 30 days after the end of the Consignment Period. 
By the Delivery Date, the Art Centre must deliver the Artwork to the Gallery at the Exhibition venue or such other location as the parties agree in writing.
The Gallery must provide a receipt upon delivery of the Artwork to the Gallery by signing and dating a copy of Schedule 2 and forwarding it to the Art Centre;
if Schedule 1 describes a specific exhibition, only offer the Artwork for sale in connection with that Exhibition unless agreed otherwise with the Art Centre in writing;
exhibit, offer for sale and use its best efforts to sell each Artwork at the Retail Price during the Consignment Period; and
return any unsold Artwork to the Art Centre by the end of the Consignment Period.

The Art Centre and the Gallery may agree in writing to vary the Retail Price of an Artwork, including by way of a discount.
The Art Centre and the Gallery will not agree to discount the Retail Price of any Artwork unless they have reasonable grounds to believe that such a discount is:
in the interests of the Artist; and
necessary in order to achieve a sale of that Artwork.
The Gallery may charge the Gallery Commission in respect of each sale of an Artwork made by the Gallery during the Consignment Period;
acknowledges that the Gallery Commission covers all costs incurred by the Gallery under this agreement, including but not limited to costs relating to advertising and promotion, transparencies, publications, catalogues, invitations, postage, and any catering or entertainment for any Exhibition.

In respect of each Artwork sold, the Gallery must pay the Art Centre the Sale Price (exclusive of GST) less the Gallery Commission:
by the Payment Date; and 
by the Payment Method.
The Gallery must pay Interest on late payments. Interest:
accrues from (and including) the date any unpaid amount is due and is payable to the Artist until the amount is paid in full;
is payable on demand;
accrues daily and is capitalised if not paid every 7 calendar days; and
is calculated on the basis of the actual number of calendar days on which interest has accrued and a 365 days year.
No later than the last business day of each calendar month during the Consignment Period and the calendar month immediately following the Consignment Period, the Gallery will provide the Art Centre with a written statement setting out the following matters:
details of each Artwork sold and its Sale Price;
the number of days that the Artworks were exhibited for sale during the month; and
the number of visitors to any Exhibition.
To the extent allowed by law, at the time of selling Artwork, the Gallery will use its best efforts to obtain the contact details of the purchaser and must forward those details to the Art Centre by the Payment Date. The Gallery agrees that the Art Centre may use such information to promote the activities of the Art Centre, in applications and reports to funding bodies, and in the biographical and promotional materials of the Artists.
The Gallery will promptly provide the Art Centre with any other information which the Art Centre may reasonably request for the purpose of claiming payments due to any Artist under any applicable resale rights royalty scheme.

The parties agree that all payments to be made under this agreement are exclusive of Goods and Services Tax (GST).
If a party is liable to pay GST in respect of any good or service supplied under this agreement, that party will invoice the other party for the GST amount payable for the good or service and will ensure that the invoice is a GST compliant invoice.
The party who receives the GST compliant invoice must pay the amount of GST invoiced at the same time as the amount payable under this agreement.

The Gallery must maintain accurate books and records in relation to sales of Artwork. 
Within 14 calendar days of the Art Centre's request, the Gallery will make all books and records available to the Art Centre during the normal business hours. If any discrepancy is established in favour of the Art Centre upon examination of the books and records, the Gallery must pay the Art Centre the costs of the examination and the deficit amount within 14 calendar days.
The Gallery a is responsible for unpacking, installing and displaying the Artwork and must ensure that these activities are carried out by suitably qualified personnel;
must consult with the Art Centre and use its best efforts to ensure that each Artwork is displayed in a manner that is fair, accessible to the public and sympathetic to the Artwork's context;
must not frame or remount the Artwork except with the prior written consent of the Art Centre;
must handle each Artwork with special care at all times to prevent damage or deterioration that is not a characteristic of the Artwork; 
must ensure the safe protection of the Artwork at all times including but not limited to protection from hazards of fire, flood, theft, dirt, food, drinks, smoking or handling by unauthorised or inexperienced personnel, including but not limited to members of the public;
must only exhibit, store and install the Artwork in a place that is equipped with adequate fire detection, protection and security monitoring systems;
must ensure that every exhibition is properly supervised at all times when open to the public;
must provide a draft of any Exhibition invitation and catalogue to the Art Centre for approval at least 7 days prior to printing;
agrees to consult with the Art Centre as to whether the Artwork will be available for selected viewing and sale prior to the Exhibition opening;
at the end of the Consignment Period, must provide to the Art Centre:
copies of all publicity materials including advertising brochures, catalogues and price lists to the Art Centre in a sufficient quantity to provide a set of such materials for the Art Centre's records and a set for each Artist; and
electronic copies of all photographs taken by or for the Gallery under clause 12.3; and
agrees to use all reasonable efforts to obtain copies of any reviews or media articles about the Exhibition and to forward these to the Art Centre.

The Art Centre will arrange and pay for the transport of the Artwork to the Gallery and its associated packing and transit insurance.
The Gallery will arrange and pay for repacking, transport and transit insurance for the Artwork to be returned to the Art Centre, and for Artwork to be delivered to purchasers.

The Gallery must take out and maintain:
adequate insurance against loss, damage, theft and destruction of the Artwork for the Consignment Period and for a sum not less than the total of the Retail Price of each Artwork;
appropriate public liability insurance.
The Gallery must promptly notify the Art Centre in writing if an Artwork is lost, damaged, stolen or destroyed and:
if the Artwork has been damaged and is reparable, the Gallery must promptly pay the Art Centre the reasonable costs of repairs to the Artwork or, if the Art Centre consents to the Gallery making or arranging for the repair, ensure that the Artwork is repaired to the Art Centre's satisfaction;
if an Artwork is lost, stolen, irreparably damaged or destroyed, promptly pay the Art Centre the Retail Price of the Artwork.

The Artist retains title to the Artwork until the Sale Price is paid to the Gallery, at which time title passes directly to the purchaser.
The Gallery acknowledges that copyright in each Artwork is owned by, and remains with, the Artist.
The Art Centre, as the non-exclusive licensee of the copyright in each Artwork, permits the Gallery to photograph the Artwork for the purpose only of promoting the exhibition and sale of the Artwork under this agreement, including for the purpose of creating catalogues and invitations, on the Gallery's website, and providing Certificates of Authenticity to purchasers.
The Gallery must not otherwise deal with any copyright in the Artwork without obtaining the Art Centre's prior written consent. Without limitation, the Gallery must not photograph or otherwise reproduce any Artwork or let any other person or organisation to do so without obtaining the Art Centre's prior written consent.
The Gallery must display a copyright notice that includes the Artist's name, the copyright symbol and the year that the Work was created:
next to each Artwork; and
accompanying all reproductions of the Artwork.

Without limiting the Artist's moral rights under the Copyright Act 1968 (Cth), the Gallery:
must not, and must not let any other person or organisation, destroy, damage, or alter any Artwork;
must acknowledge the Artist correctly and clearly whenever the Artwork is displayed or reproduced, including in all publicity materials; and
if requested by the Art Centre and using wording provided by the Art Centre, agrees to display such other public notices addressing cultural issues related to the Artwork as the Art Centre considers reasonably necessary.
If the Artwork embodies traditional ritual indigenous knowledge, the Gallery must display the Notice of Custodial Interest set out in Schedule 1 in a reasonably prominent position with the Artwork. Upon request by the Art Centre, the Gallery agrees to include the Notice of Custodial Interest in the Exhibition catalogue and with the documentation provided to each purchaser.
By the Delivery Date, the Art Centre must:
provide the Gallery with a biographical statement for each Artist, which has been approved by the Artist for publication; and
where applicable, supply the Gallery with Artist's artistic statements to accompany the Artwork.
Solely in connection with the exhibition and sale of the Artwork, the Gallery:
may copy and exploit the Artist's name and likeness;
may display and reproduce the Artist's biographical statements and artistic statements
will, if requested by the Art Centre, display the Artist' biographical statements and artistic statements next to the Artwork, and provide a copy to each purchaser;
acknowledges that in the event of an Artist's death, the subsequent display of the Artist's likeness during the Consignment Period may be culturally inappropriate and, upon notification of the Artist's death and receipt of a request to do so from the Art Centre or the Artist's family, agrees to remove from display, to the extent reasonably practicable, any likenesses or images of the Artist.
If a party commits a breach of this agreement, the other party must notify the party in breach of the breach in writing. The party in breach must remedy the breach within 28 calendar days of the notice (Notice Period). If the breach is not remedied at the expiry of the Notice Period, the party who gave the notice may terminate this agreement immediately by written notice.
The agreement automatically ends if either party becomes insolvent, is declared bankrupt, has a liquidator appointed or goes into administration, voluntary or otherwise.

all rights granted to the Gallery by the Art Centre under this agreement revert to the Art Centre; and
the Gallery must, at its cost, return any unsold Artwork to the Art Centre within 21 calendar days.

If a dispute or disagreement (Dispute) arises between the parties in connection with this agreement:
either party must notify the other party in writing about the Dispute; and
each party must refrain from starting any litigation or arbitration in relation to the Dispute until the parties have complied with this clause.
The parties should meet within 14 calendar days after receipt of the notice of dispute and hold good faith discussions to attempt to resolve the Dispute.
If the Dispute is not resolved within 28 calendar days after receipt of the notice of dispute, the parties agree to submit the dispute to mediation. 
If the parties are not able to agree to a mediator or mediation process within 35 calendar days after receipt of the notice of dispute, the parties must submit the Dispute to mediation according to the Arts Law Centre Mediation guidelines current at that time (Guidelines). These guidelines are part of this agreement.
If the parties are unable to resolve the Dispute within 7 calendar days of commencing mediation or such later time as may be agreed during the mediation, either party may refer the matter to arbitration or commence litigation.
The parties must continue to perform their respective obligations under this agreement despite the existence of a Dispute.

The parties acknowledge that the Gallery becomes the agent of the Art Centre as a result of this agreement only in respect of the Artwork listed in Schedule 2.
A notice required to be given under this agreement may be delivered by hand, or sent by pre-paid post or fax to the address of the party indicated in Schedule 1. Notices are taken to have been served when received, or within 2 business days of having been sent, whichever occurs first.
Neither party may assign, subcontract, novate or otherwise divest this agreement or any of the rights or obligations under this agreement without the other party's prior written consent. This consent must not be unreasonably withheld. 
Subject to clause 16.6, this agreement contains the entire agreement of the parties regarding its subject matter. Any previous understanding, agreement, representation or warranty relating to that subject matter is replaced by this agreement and has no further effect.
Nothing in this agreement transfers or excludes any applicable cultural rights in favour of Australian Indigenous people that may be implemented under Australian law.
This agreement may only be modified by a written amendment signed by the parties.
Invalidity of any clause of this agreement will not affect the validity of any other clause except to the extent made necessary by the invalidity.
This agreement is governed by the law in force in the jurisdiction specified in Schedule 1. The parties submit to the jurisdiction of the courts of that State and any court competent to hear appeals from those courts.