Unusual or exceptional business models not covered by this Clause 3.3 or Appendix 4 shall fall within the scope of Appendix 2 which may be updated on a case-by-case basis where mutually agreed by the parties. Client's share shall be subject to written mutual acceptance. 

PARTNER shall invoice PARTNER's clients regularly with the term of payment common and usual within the field of this kind of business, but no greater than thirty (30) days from date of invoice.
Unless otherwise stated in writing (email), PARTNER is not allowed to use third party add-ons and/or other additional services to alter or modify a Product. 

The Parties acknowledge that all Service delivery terms shall be mutually agreed between the Parties before making commercial arrangements with a Client. BAREFOOT may have some guidelines and minimum requirements that the Parties need to follow. Such requirements are end user fee and Client's revenue share. Such requirements shall be stated on separate documentation and informed to BAREFOOT clearly and accurately before entering into any commercial arrangements, delivered case by case without BAREFOOT's separate request. 

BAREFOOT is responsible for the technical and artistic quality of the Products and warrants that all Products to be of the same high quality as applications which BAREFOOT has provided to its other partners and clients. The Product portfolio shall be updated with the latest releases without any delay after the newest release.

PARTNER is solely responsible for ensuring that the Services offered by Clients under this Agreement always conform to law and good custom in the Territory.

In case of revenue sharing agreement, revenue to be paid to BAREFOOT shall be calculated based on the total funds received from billed volume, based on the monthly report coming from each Client.

All fees and payment shall be paid in <<AGREED CURRENCY>>.

PARTNER shall organize online reporting tools for BAREFOOT to use indicating the number of downloaded transactions of the Licensed Products.

PARTNER shall make payment to BAREFOOT within ten (10) working days from the end of every month of its share entitlements to all revenue accrued for that month from all Clients or other forms of distribution. In case of any other payment terms such as sponsor payment, set up fee, integration fee, customization fee, or similar, those shall be treated similarly as revenue share if outside the scope of Clause 3.3.

PARTNER shall keep all the usual proper records and books of account relating to distribution and downloading of the Products under this Agreement.

BAREFOOT may audit those books and records and conduct such audit only during PARTNER's usual business hours, and at the place where it keeps the books and records to be examined, after providing at least thirty (30) days prior notice. 

Such audit shall be conducted at BAREFOOT's sole expense, except that if any audit reveals an error resulting in an underpayment to BAREFOOT of five percent (5%) or more of the total amount accounted to BAREFOOT during the accounting periods audited, then PARTNER shall pay to BAREFOOT all reasonable audit costs, including travel, hotel together with the underpayment. 

The Parties represent, warrant and agree that they have the full right, power and authority to enter into this Agreement and fulfill the duties and responsibilities stated hereunder.

BAREFOOT shall not in any circumstances contact directly PARTNER's Clients or prospects (that have been brought to the attention of BAREFOOT by PARTNER) without PARTNER's prior consent and knowledge and all inquiries received from said companies must be brought to PARTNER's attention by BAREFOOT for servicing and follow up. Such Clients will be subject to revenue share fee stated in Clause 3.3.

Each party hereunder will hold the other party, its successors, assigns, agents and licensees, free and harmless from and against any and all claims, demands, damages, expenses, losses or costs (including reasonable attorney's fees and costs), or any sums paid in settlement, arising out of or incurred as a direct result of any actual breach of the representations, warranties, agreements and undertakings of or by the party concerned.

The parties acknowledge and agree that the trademark, service mark, logo and trade name as applied to this Agreement are the property of the original titleholders and each party is committed to avoiding any infringement of trademark, service mark and trade name.
PARTNER shall take all steps to secure and maintain protection of the Products as permitted pursuant to copyright and equivalent or similar laws through the Territory. 

This Agreement shall become effective on the date of execution of this Agreement, and shall continue in force for a period of twelve (12) months ("Initial Term").  Upon the expiry of the Initial Term, this Agreement shall automatically and annually be renewed for another 12 months  ("Renewal Term") unless either party wishes to terminate the Agreement by giving at least thirty (30) days prior written notice.
For a period of eighteen (18) months after the agreement termination, any BAREFOOT products/services sale to PARTNER's Client will be subject to the revenue share fee as stated in Clause 3.3.
Either party may by written notice terminate this Agreement with immediate effect if the other party has committed a material breach of this Agreement, and not rectified the same within a time which shall be reasonable taking into account previous technical and other relevant conditions after receipt of a written request specifying the breach from the other party.

From the date of termination of this agreement as described in Clauses 5.1 and 5.3, the parties shall account for all outstanding monies due within 15 working days after receiving payment from mobile network operators or Clients.

After the termination of this Agreement, the Parties will refrain from further direct or indirect use of the information obtained from the other Party. Also, either Party must immediately give up all the copies of the Products, Product guides, books, and goods, correspondence and other documents in the wider sense of the word that it has in its possession when this Agreement terminates (for example documents, diskettes, CD's, DVD's and so on), which are connected to the other Party, or copies of any such documents or notes.

Except for termination due to the breach of this Agreement by PARTNER, PARTNER may complete transactions that have already been initiated with Clients and the applicable terms and conditions of this Agreement shall be extended for the time necessary to complete such transactions.

Each party shall keep confidential all provisions of this Agreement and shall not make any public announcement of it or its subject matter without the other party's prior written consent.
Each party agrees not to use or disclose the Confidential Information disclosed to it by the other party for any purpose except to further the objective of this Agreement.  Each party agrees that it will take all reasonable measures to protect the secrecy of and avoid disclosure or use of confidential Information of the other in order to prevent it from falling into the public domain or possession of persons other that those persons authorized thereunder to have any such information, which measures shall include at least a reasonable degree of care.  This provision shall be binding on the parties and shall be treated and safeguarded thereunder by the Receiving Party for a period, which shall coincide with the entire duration of this Agreement.

Both Parties shall indemnify, hold harmless and defend the other Party and its partners, principals, employees or agents thereof (each of the foregoing being hereinafter referred to individually as an "Indemnified Party") against all claims, liabilities, losses, expenses (including attorney's fees and legal expenses related to such defense), fines, penalties, taxes or damages (collectively "Liabilities") asserted by any third party where such Liabilities arise out of (i) the negligence or willful misconduct of either Party or its personnel; (ii) the representations or warranties made by either Party; (iii) the violation by either Party, or violation caused by the exploitation of work, information or materials provided by either Party, of any third party's trade secrets, proprietary information, trademark, copyright, or patent rights; or (iv) a third party claim by any employee, independent contractor or invite of either Party including without limitation those seeking employer-employee claims or benefits from either Party.

Nothing contained or implied in this Agreement shall constitute or be deemed to constitute a partnership/Joint Venture between the parties and no party shall have authority to bind or commit the other party except as provided herein.

This agreement shall be interpreted and construed in all respects in accordance with Hong Kong law and any dispute arising hereunder shall be subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of the Special Administrative Region of Hong Kong court.

All modifications and additions to this Agreement and appendices must be made in writing and must be signed by both Parties.

Such occurrences may be but shall not be limited to war, mutiny, internal unrest, expropriation, or confiscation for public needs, embargo, discontinuation of public transportation, or supply of energy, labour conflict or fire or some unusual event with equally drastic effects beyond the Parties' control.
Any notice, consent, approval, or correspondence between relating parties shall be in writing in English and shall be deemed served if sent to addresses indicated herebelow by personal delivery or registered mail or electronic mail or facsimile, provided that if sent by facsimile a registered or personal confirmation must be sent within twenty-four (24) hours after the transmission to the following addresses:


BAREFOOT may introduce some of its Clients or other business partners to PARTNER for the purpose of coordination of defined projects and boosting the sales (all duties referred to hereinafter as "Sales Promoter Activities"). 
In any circumstances PARTNER may not use appointed Clients or BAREFOOT's business partners for its own use without BAREFOOT's prior consent. Violation shall be considered a material breach of this Agreement and grounds for termination as set out in 5.3. 
All other terms and roles shall be agreed case by case once they are appointed to PARTNER.  

BAREFOOT will provide demo projects given that more detail is required to publishing these types of titles. General specifications are;

Background Image for first screen - 240 x 300 - JPG image to be less than 10kb
Cover Images for each section saved as cover.png (PNG8) 105 (w) x 140 (h)
Each section that will be displayed on the first screen will be driven by number of folders.
Each Folder (section) will contain a text file call content.txt containing TAGS for Headers (which are displayed in the Table of Contents section, within the section), placement of Images within the section.
Images should be a maximum of 240 pixels wide, and 260 pixels high for best results on a 240 x 320 screen. Best image formats are PNG8 and JPG and GIF (PNG8 for best results)
Application icons, plus JAR title and file name are same specifications used in mBookX 

For each eBookX title tweaking will be required between BAREFOOT and the PARTNER to get the desired results for final build.
Under this model, BAREFOOT will charge a commitment fee which covers the cost of packaging (same as Non-commercial Demo model). The published titles will be marketed directly by PARTNER or PARTNER's clients to gain "commercial" revenue.