If more than one person is at any time included in this Agreement as the Artist then each such person shall be both jointly and severally liable for the performance and observance of all the provisions of this Agreement to be performed or observed by the Artist.

In consideration of the Contract Fee, the Artist agrees to submit a Concept Design in accordance with the Artist's Brief and the terms of this Agreement.
The Concept Design must be submitted to the Commissioning Party by the date specified in Item 5 of the Schedule or on such other date as the Parties shall mutually agree ("the Submission Date").
The Concept Design submitted by the Artist must in all respects comply and conform with the requirements set out and described in the Artist's Brief.

the Artist will apply its aesthetic skill and judgment and use materials of an appropriate character and quality to create the Concept Design;
the Concept Design submitted by the Artist must in all respects comply and conform with the requirements particularly set out and described in the Artist's Brief;
the Artist may incorporate elements derived from Indigenous heritage into their Concept Design only with the prior informed consent of the relevant Indigenous custodians/owners.

The Commissioning Party shall within 14 days after the Submission Date pay the Artist the Contract Fee set out at Item 4 of the First Schedule. The Contract Fee will be paid according to the manner of payment outlined in Item 4 of the First Schedule.
No Contract Fee shall be paid by the Commissioning Party to the Artist pursuant to Clause 4.1 if:
the Artist fails to submit the Concept Design to the Commissioning Party on or before the Submission Date;
the Concept Design submitted does not relate to or comply with the requirements set out in the Artist's Brief;
the Concept Design submitted by the Artist has not been prepared in accordance with, or meet the standards required by Clause 3.1 herein. 

The Commissioning Party must within 28 days of the Submission Date notify the Artist in writing as to the approval or otherwise of the Concept Design.

If the Artist's Concept Design is approved by the Commissioning Party pursuant to Clause 5 above, the Artist agrees to submit to the Commissioning Party a Developed Concept Design in accordance with the Artist's Brief and any instructions of the Commissioning Party.
The Developed Concept Design must be submitted to the Commissioning Party by the date specified in Item 6 of the First Schedule, or such other date as may be mutually agreed in writing ("Submission Date for the Developed Concept Design").

the Artist will apply its aesthetic skill and judgment and use materials of an appropriate character and quality to create the Developed Concept Design;
the Developed Concept Design submitted by the Artist must in all respects comply and conform with the Artist's Brief and any further instructions given to the Artist by the Commissioning Party.

In consideration for the Artist developing and amending the Concept Design, the Commissioning Party shall pay the Artist an extra design commission fee to be negotiated between the Parties and to be paid in the following instalments:
one half within 14 days of written approval of the Artist's Concept Design; and 
one half within 14 days of the Submission Date for the Developed Concept Design.
No extra design commission fee shall be paid by the Commissioning Party to the Artist pursuant to Clause 7.1 in the following circumstances:
where the Artist fails to submit the Developed Concept Design to the Commissioning Party on or before the Submission Date;
where the Developed Concept Design submitted does not comply with the requirements set out in the Artist's Brief or the instructions of the Commissioning Party;
where the Developed Concept Design submitted by the Artist has not been prepared in accordance with, or meet the standards required by Clause 6.3 herein. 

The Commissioning Party must within 28 days of the Submission Date for the Developed Concept Design (or such other time as may be mutually agreed between the Parties) notify the Artist in writing as to the approval or otherwise of the Developed Concept Design.

The Artist shall not subcontract or sublet any part of the services under this Agreement without the prior written approval of the Commissioning Party which approval may be given or withheld in the absolute discretion of the Commissioning Party.
Any approval given to the Artist by the Commissioning Party to engage a subcontractor shall not relieve the Artist from any of its contractual obligations.  The Artist shall be responsible to the Commissioning Party for the work or services of the subcontractor or any employee or agent of the subcontractor.
The Artist shall ensure that each subcontractor shall provide and maintain insurance cover of no less a standard than required by the Artist under this Agreement.

The Commissioning Party may appoint a Contract Representative who shall be nominated in Item 3 of the First Schedule to act as a point of contact and to exercise the duties, discretions and powers vested in the Commissioning Party under this Agreement. 
The appointment of a Commissioning Party's Contract Representative shall not prevent the exercise of any duty, discretion or power by the Commissioning Party.  The Commissioning Party may by written notice to the Artist, at any time, revoke the appointment and substitute another as its Contract Representative.
The Artist may appoint a Contract Representative (or equivalent or delegate) who shall be nominated in Item 3 of the First Schedule to fulfil the role of the Artist's Contract Representative to act as a point of contact and to exercise the duties, discretions and powers vested in the Artist under this Agreement.  The Artist may, with the prior written approval of the Commissioning Party, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld, revoke this appointment and shall substitute another Contract Representative.

All amounts payable pursuant to this Agreement are expressed to be exclusive of, but subject to, GST.
The Parties acknowledge that where GST is to be applied to any payment under this Agreement the amount payable shall be increased by multiplying the GST exclusive amount by the then applicable rate of GST.

The Parties agree that all Intellectual Property rights in the Concept Design and the Developed Concept Design belong to and remain with the Artist.
Upon payment of the relevant Contract Fee in full, title to the Concept Design and the Developed Concept Design shall vest in the Commissioning Party. Concept Designs that do not receive the approval of the Commissioning Party within 28 days of their submission shall be returned to the Artist.
Notwithstanding Clause 12.1, the Artist grants permission to the Commissioning Party to use the Concept Design and the Developed Concept Design for the purposes and in the manner set out in Item 7 of the Schedule.
The Commissioning Party acknowledges that use, reproduction or communication of the Concept Design and/or the Developed Concept Design for any purpose other than those set out in Item 7 of the Schedule requires the prior written consent of the Artist and may be the subject of further fees and/or royalty payments on terms to be separately negotiated.
The Parties acknowledge that all Moral Rights of those entitled at law to assert them are preserved.

the Artist is the sole legal and beneficial owner of and has full right and title to copyright subsisting in the Concept Design and/or the Developed Concept Design;
the Concept Design and/or the Developed Concept Design is not copied wholly or substantially from any other party's work or material;
the Artist has not entered into any agreements or arrangements involving the sale, mortgage, pledge, granting of options or any other rights over the Artist's rights, title and interest subsisting in the Concept Design and the Developed Concept Design;
neither the execution of this Agreement nor the performance by the Artist of its obligations under this Agreement will cause the Artist to be in breach of any agreement to which it is party or is subject.
The Artist will indemnify and at all times keep the Commissioning Party fully indemnified against all claims, actions, proceedings, costs and damages whatsoever made against or incurred by the Commissioning Party in consequence of any breach of the warranties contained herein in Sub-clause 1. 


The Commissioning Party may terminate this Agreement at any time and for whatever reason upon giving written notice to the Artist. Upon such termination any Contract Fee paid or payable to the Artist shall be adjusted either by additional payment or refund by either Party according to the amount of artistic work done by the Artist in pursuance of this Agreement up to the date of receiving such notice. 

The Artist may terminate this Agreement for any reason prior to the Submission Date for the Concept Design or the Developed Concept Design by notice in writing to the Commissioning Party.
If the Artist terminates this Agreement pursuant to Clause 14.2.1 then no Contract Fee shall be payable by the Commissioning Party and the Commissioning Party may recover any Contract Fee already paid to the Artist. 

Subject to Clause 16, either Party may terminate this Agreement immediately on written notice to the other, while preserving to itself any rights which may have accrued to it, where the other Party:
commits a material breach of this Agreement which is not capable of being remedied; or
fails to remedy a breach capable of being remedied within a period stated by notice in writing (which period must be reasonable in the circumstances). 

This Agreement will terminate automatically on the death or incapacity of the Artist in which case:
the Artist or his/her estate shall retain all payment made and owed to the Artist;
the Commissioning Party agrees to pay the Artist or the Artist's representative (as the case may be) that portion of the unpaid portion of the Contract Fee for the unfinished Concept Design or the Developed Concept Design that is in the Commissioning Party's reasonable opinion reflective of the degree of completeness of the design work when compared with the requirements of the Artist's Brief and the Commissioning Party's instructions; 
the Commissioning Party shall have the right to keep copies of the Concept Design and the Developed Concept Design for the sole purpose of completing the Work; and
the Work will be completed by an artist acceptable to both the Artist or the Artist's estate, and to the Commissioning Party. If the Commissioning Party does not wish to have the Work completed all copies of the Concept Design and the Developed Concept Design will become the property of the Artist or the Artist's estate.  

The Parties agree that any dispute arising during the course of this Agreement will be dealt with as follows:
the Party claiming that there is a dispute will send to the other a notice setting out the nature of the dispute;
the Parties will try to resolve the dispute by direct negotiation, including by referring the matter to persons who may have authority to intervene and direct some form of resolution;
the Parties have 10 business days from the sending of the notice to reach a resolution or to agree that the dispute will be submitted to mediation or some other form of alternative dispute resolution procedure; and

Despite the existence of a dispute, the Artist will (unless requested in writing not to do so) continue to perform its obligations under this Agreement.
This clause does not preclude either Party from commencing legal proceedings for urgent interlocutory or other relief.

The Parties agree that liquidated damages for failure to submit the Concept Design and/or the Developed Concept Design by the relevant submission date will entitle the Commissioning Party to liquidated damages in the sum specified in Item 8 of the First Schedule.
The Parties acknowledge that this is a reasonable and genuine pre-estimate of the actual loss incurred by the Commissioning Party as a result of the breach.
Each Party shall respect the confidentiality of the other Party's Confidential Information and neither Party shall, without the other Party's written consent, disclose or divulge the other Party's Confidential Information.
The duty of confidence referred to in this Clause 18 does not extend to Confidential Information which:
was in or becomes part of the public domain otherwise than as a result of a breach of this Agreement; or
is disclosed by a Party as required by law.


The Artist must not make or permit to be made a public announcement or media release about any aspect of this Agreement or the Public Art Project without the prior written consent of the Commissioning Party.

All notices required or permitted to be given under this Agreement:
must be in writing and sent to the relevant address provided in Items 1 or 2 (respectively) of the First Schedule; or
may be delivered by hand or sent by pre-paid letter or facsimile transmission; and
will be deemed to have been served if by hand when delivered, if by post 48 hours after posting and if by facsimile, upon receipt of confirmation of successful transmission.
No waiver by a party of any breach of this Agreement is binding unless it is made expressly and confirmed in writing.

A modification or variation of this Agreement must be made in writing and signed by both parties. 

Failure or omission by a Party to enforce or require strict compliance with a provision of this Agreement does not affect or impair that provision or the right of the Party to avail themselves of any remedies they may have in respect of any breach of this Agreement. 
Neither Party may assign this Agreement or any of his or her rights under this Agreement without the prior written consent of the other Party.
If any provision of this Agreement is void or unenforceable, all other provisions which are self sustaining and capable of separate enforcement without regard to the invalid or unenforceable provisions are and will continue to be valid and enforceable in accordance with their terms.

Neither party shall be liable for any delay or failure to perform its obligations pursuant to this Contract if such delay is due to Force Majeure.
If a delay or failure of a party to perform its obligations is caused or anticipated due to Force Majeure the performance of that party's obligations will be suspended.
If a delay or failure by a party to perform its obligations due to Force Majeure exceeds ninety (90) calendar days either party may immediately terminate the Contract on providing notice in writing to the other party.
This Agreement is governed by and is to be construed in accordance with the laws in force in South Australia and the parties submit to the jurisdiction of its courts.
Each party must bear its own costs of and incidental to the negotiation and preparation of this Agreement.
