Where an obligation is imposed on a party under this Escrow Agreement, that obligation shall include an obligation to ensure that no act, error or omission on the part of that party's employees, agents or sub-contractors or their employees or agents occurs which will prevent the discharge of that party's obligation.
The Contractor shall deliver to, and deposit with, the Escrow Agent one copy of the Source Code and the Supporting Material within seven (7) days of the date of this Escrow Agreement.
The Contractor shall maintain, amend, modify, up-date and enhance the Source Code and Supporting Material at all times and shall ensure that the Source Code and Supporting Material deposited with the Escrow Agent is kept fully up-to-date and accurately reflects the Licensed Software including all Modifications, Amendments, Updates and New Releases made to, or in respect of, the Licensed Software.
The Contractor warrants to the Customer that the Source Code is, to the best of the knowledge of the Contractor, free from any Virus or program device which would prevent the Licensed Software from performing its desired function or which would prevent or impede a thorough and effective verification thereof.
The Escrow Agent shall accept custody of the Source Code and Supporting Material on the date of delivery in accordance with sub-clause 4.1 of this Escrow Agreement and, subject to the terms and conditions of this Escrow Agreement, shall hold the Source Code and Supporting Material on behalf of the Customer and the Contractor.
The Escrow Agent shall take all necessary steps to ensure the preservation, care, maintenance, safe custody and security of the Source Code and Supporting Material while it is in the possession, custody or control of the Escrow Agent, including storage in a secure receptacle and in an atmosphere which does not harm the Source Code and the Supporting Material.
If the Source Code and/or Supporting Material is lost, stolen, destroyed or damaged while it is in the possession, custody or control of the Escrow Agent, the Escrow Agent shall immediately notify the Customer and the Contractor.
Unless the Escrow Agreement is terminated in accordance with clause 9.2(b), the Contractor shall, upon receipt of a notice from the Escrow Agent under clause 5.3, promptly deposit a replacement copy of the Source Code and/or Supporting Material with the Escrow Agent.
Upon receipt of the replacement copy of the Source Code and/or Supporting Material, the Escrow Agent shall promptly advise the Customer and Contractor in writing of its receipt of the replacement copy of the Source Code and/or Supporting Material.
Without limitation to any other rights the Contractor and/or the Customer may have under this Escrow Agreement or at law, where the loss, damage or destruction of the Source Code and/or Supporting Material is caused by the negligent, wilful or unlawful act or omission of the Escrow Agent, the Escrow Agent must, at its own expense, reimburse the Contractor for the reasonable cost of replacing the Source Code and/or Supporting Material.
The Escrow Agent is not obliged to determine the nature, completeness or accuracy of the Source Code lodged with it.
The Customer shall pay the Escrow Fee within 30 days of receipt of a correctly rendered tax invoice from the Escrow Agent.
All expenses and disbursements incurred by the Escrow Agent in connection with this Escrow Agreement shall be borne wholly and completely by the Escrow Agent.
All expenses and disbursements incurred by the Contractor in connection with this Escrow Agreement shall be borne wholly and completely by the Contractor.
The Customer may, in the presence of and under the supervision of the Contractor, analyse and conduct tests in relation to the Source Code and Supporting Material for verification purposes.
The Customer may engage an independent assessor to undertake analysis and tests of the Source Code and Supporting Material for verification purposes, on its behalf.
The Escrow Agent shall release the Source Code and Supporting Material to the independent party upon presentation of a Release form signed by the Customer and the Contractor specifying the material to be released and identifying the person to whom that material may be released.
The Escrow Agent shall not release, or allow access to, the Source Code and Supporting Material except in accordance with the provisions of this Escrow Agreement.
The Escrow Agent shall release the Source Code and Supporting Material to the Customer upon written notice from the Customer that:
the Contractor has become subject to any form of insolvency administration;
the Contractor has ceased for any reason to maintain or support the Licensed Software;
the Customer Contract has been terminated by the Customer for breach of the Escrow Agreement by the Contractor; or
this Escrow Agreement is terminated (other than in accordance with Clause 9.4) and a new Escrow Agreement is not entered into within thirty (30) days in accordance with clause 9.3.
Where the Customer Contract has been terminated by the Contractor or where the Customer has agreed to the release the Escrow Agent shall, upon written request from the Contractor, release the Source Code and Supporting Material to the Contractor.
The Escrow Agent is not obliged to verify or otherwise test the validity of any notice received, or its contents.
The Escrow Agent may, by giving three (3) months prior written notice to the Customer and the Contractor, terminate this Escrow Agreement subject to the pro-rata refund of any advance payment of the Escrow Fee.
The Customer and the Contractor may jointly terminate this Escrow Agreement immediately if the Escrow Agent:
has become subject to any form of insolvency administration; or
is in breach of any obligation under this Escrow Agreement so that there is a substantial failure by the Escrow Agent to perform or observe this Escrow Agreement.
If this Escrow Agreement is terminated in accordance with this clause while the Customer Contract remains in force, the Customer and the Contractor shall enter into a new Escrow Agreement on the same terms and conditions as are set out in this Escrow Agreement, with an alternative escrow agent who is acceptable to both the Customer and the Contractor.
The Customer and the Contractor may, upon giving 30 days prior written notice to the Escrow Agent, jointly terminate this Escrow Agreement, however no refund of advance payment of the Escrow Fee will be payable.
The Escrow Agent shall not, except as permitted by this Escrow Agreement, make public or disclose to any person any information about this Escrow Agreement or the Source Code.
The Escrow Agent shall not reproduce, or cause to have reproduced, a copy of the Source Code or any part thereof.
The obligations under this clause shall survive the termination of this Escrow Agreement.
The Escrow Agent shall in carrying out this Escrow Agreement comply with the provisions of any relevant statutes, regulations, by-laws and the requirements of any Commonwealth, State or local authority.
Any party under this Escrow Agreement may notify in writing a dispute in respect of a matter arising under this Escrow Agreement.
The Parties shall within 7 days of such notice consult to agree a method for resolving the dispute by way of:
negotiation;
alternative dispute resolution procedures; or
arbitration;
shall commence procedures for dispute resolution within a reasonable time of agreeing a method.
This Escrow Agreement shall not be varied either in law or in equity except by agreement in writing signed by the Escrow Agent, the Customer and the Contractor.
A waiver by one party of a breach of a provision of this Escrow Agreement by another Party shall not constitute a waiver in respect of any other breach or of any subsequent breach of this Escrow Agreement.
The failure of a Party to enforce a provision of this Escrow Agreement shall not be interpreted as a waiver of that provision.
The Contractor and the Escrow Agent, or either of these, shall not assign, in whole or in part, or novate this Escrow Agreement without first obtaining the prior written consent of the Customer.
A notice or other communication which may be given to or served on either party under this Escrow Agreement is deemed to have been duly given or served if it is in writing, signed by the Party giving the notice ("the first Party") and is either delivered by hand, posted, sent via facsimile or a copy transmitted via electronic mail or other electronic means to the other Party at the address set out below or such other address as is notified in writing to the first party from time to time.
If delivery or receipt of a notice or communication occurs on a day other than a Business Day or is later than four (4.00) pm (Customer local time) it will be taken to have duly occurred at nine (9.00) am (Customer local time) on the next Business Day.
Where the notice is given or served electronically, the sending party must confirm receipt by some other means.
The address for services of notice for a party is, in the case of the:
This includes controlled retention of deposits and maintenance of audit records and documentary evidentiary support of deposit movements, processing and certification of up to 4 deposits per annum.
Deposits in excess of 4 per annum shall be charged at the Additional Charges rate set out below.
This includes one unit of Escrow Storage (where 1 unit = 1/2 cubic foot).
Additional units of Escrow Storage shall be charged at the Additional Charge rates set out below.
The Annual deposit fee is based on a 3 party agreement, where one of the parties is the Escrow Agent.
Additional parties to the Escrow Agreement shall be charged at the Additional Charge rates set out below.

The University hereby grants to the Licensee a non-transferable and non-exclusive licence to copy and use the Licensed Product described in Schedule 1 under the terms and conditions contained in this Agreement.
The Licensee shall have the right to use the Licensed Product on any computer listed in Schedule 2.
The Licensee may copy the Licensed Product only for the purpose of using the program on the computer(s) listed in Schedule 2 or for archive purposes.
Any part of the Licensed Product included in a modified work shall remain subject to all terms and conditions of this Agreement.
The Licensee may copy the supplied documentation for internal purposes only.
The Licensee shall have the right to use the Licensed Product for testing, personal and demonstration applications only unless additional uses are specifically listed in Schedule 3.
Use of the Licensed Product in a production environment, including but not limited to: institutional web pages; public displays; applications accessible beyond the licensed location, institution or work group; subscription services or commercial applications; is specifically excluded unless listed in Schedule 3 or subsequently authorised by the University.
In the event of the Licensee selling or disposing of the licensed computer(s), the Licensee must delete all copies of the Licence Product from those computers and, the University will have the right to terminate the Licensing Agreement for those computer(s).
Where the Licensee replaces an existing licensed computer with another computer, then the licence may be transferred free of cost provided the replacement computer(s) continue to fulfil the same role within the organisation.
If the replacement computer(s) fulfil a different role, including but not limited to serving an increased number of users or becoming more widely accessible through an Intranet or on the Internet, the Licensee shall advise the University in writing of the change.
The Licensee shall pay to the University the Licence Fee stipulated in Schedule 4 and in addition the Licensee shall meet all applicable taxes thereon including GST, such payment being solely for the right to use the Licensed Product pursuant to these terms and conditions and does not constitute the purchase of the Licensed Product, nor the grant of any other right or title to the Licensed Product.
Payment of the annual maintenance fee specified in Schedule 4 shall entitle the Licensee to 	download updates of the Licensed Product (including any new features developed) from the 	TimeMap web site, for a period of 1 year from the due date specified in Schedule 4.
Any Licence fee payable under this Agreement shall be paid either by cheque written out to "The 	University of Sydney ", by credit card authorisation, or electronic transfer directed 	into the 	University's nominated bank 	account, quoting "BLO Ref.
No.
1127 - TimeMap".
This Agreement shall remain in force until the Licensee discontinues the use of the software or until terminated in accordance with Clause 7.
The Licensee agrees to reproduce and include the University's copyright notice on all copies of the Licensed Product produced under Clause 1.2 above, or any modification thereof in any form, and the Licensee hereby unreservedly assigns all Intellectual Property rights to the University in any such modifications.
Upon termination of the licence herein granted, the Licensee shall certify to the University in writing that all copies of the Licensed Product in whatever form in its possession or under its control have been destroyed and the Licensee hereby authorises the University to attend premises where same were kept and to verify such destruction.
On termination the Licensee shall warrant in writing that it is not in breach of this clause.
Any right to damages shall not be prejudiced by termination.
The Licensee agrees not to disclose, provide or otherwise make available the Licensed Product or any portion thereof in any form whatsoever to any person other than the University or other Licensed Product licence holders, without written approval of the University.
The Licensee will take all reasonable steps necessary to ensure that no unauthorised copies or uses are made of the Licensed Product.
The Licensee agrees to advise the University immediately it discovers any unauthorised copies or uses of the Licensed Product.
Title to and ownership of the Licensed Product including all Intellectual Property rights shall at all times remain with the University.
The University will not be responsible for the correcting of any bugs or deficiencies found by the Licensee.
However, the University may, at its own discretion, provide to the Licensee updated copies of the software for download from the TimeMap web site (http://www.timemap.net).Such updated copies of the software shall be restricted to fixes of bugs or deficiencies in the software.
Major new releases of the software are not covered by this clause and may at the University's option be marketed as new products except as provided by clause 3.2.
The decision as to what constitutes a correction of a bug or deficiency as opposed to increased functionality shall be the sole judgement of the University.
The Licensed Product is being supplied by the University at the request of the Licensee.
It is acknowledged and agreed by the parties that:
the University does not have any detailed knowledge or understanding of the Licensee's needs, obligations and business;
no warranty or undertaking is made by the University that the Licensed Product will be suitable for or assist the Licensee in its operations or be compatible with the Licensee's equipment;
to the extent permitted by any Federal or State Laws, all warranties including any express or implied warranties of merchantability or of fitness for a particular purpose are hereby excluded.
The University shall not be liable in contract, tort or otherwise to the Licensee for any special, indirect, consequential or other damages in any way resulting from or arising out of the use of the Licensed Product.
in the event that any conditions or warranties implied by the Trade Practices Act, 1974 (as amended) (hereinafter referred to as "the Act") apply to the use of the Licensed Product by the Licensee, the liability of the University for breach of any such conditions or warranties (other than a condition or warranty implied by section 69 of the Act) shall be limited to:
in the case of goods, either:
the replacement of the goods or the supply of equivalent goods; or
the repair of the goods;

whichever the University in its absolute discretion shall think fit; and
in the case of services, the supplying of the services again.
It is further acknowledged that the University is not and shall not be required to provide any back up, support or further information to the Licensee, unless specifically negotiated over and above the provision of the Agreement.
In the event the Licensee neglects or fails to perform or observe any of its obligations under this Agreement, the licence granted hereunder to the Licensee shall immediately terminate.
This Agreement, the licence granted hereunder and the Licensed Product may not be assigned, sub-licensed or otherwise transferred by the Licensee without prior written consent of the University.
The University shall have the right to appoint a nominee to inspect the books and records of the Licensee to determine any unauthorised transfer.
This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of New South Wales and all applicable laws of the Commonwealth of Australia.
The parties agree to submit to the jurisdiction of the Courts of New South Wales.
Any dispute or controversy arising out of or in relation to this Agreement shall be referred to the Australian Commercial Disputes Centre.
Should any provision of this Agreement be held by a Court to be unlawful, invalid, unenforceable or in conflict with any rule of law, statute, ordinance or regulation, the validity and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not be thereby affected.
The Licensee agrees to acknowledge use of the Licensed Product through a copyright notice and hyperlink to the TimeMap web site (http://www.timemap.net) displayed within the applet space or in the embedding web page adjacent to the applet, following the guidelines published on the TimeMap web site, and in any published materials describing applications developed with the Licensed product.



If more than one person is at any time included in this Agreement as the Artist then each such person shall be both jointly and severally liable for the performance and observance of all the provisions of this Agreement to be performed or observed by the Artist.
In consideration of the Contract Fee, the Artist agrees to submit a Concept Design in accordance with the Artist's Brief and the terms of this Agreement.
The Concept Design must be submitted to the Commissioning Party by the date specified in Item 5 of the Schedule or on such other date as the Parties shall mutually agree ("the Submission Date").
The Concept Design submitted by the Artist must in all respects comply and conform with the requirements set out and described in the Artist's Brief.
the Artist will apply its aesthetic skill and judgment and use materials of an appropriate character and quality to create the Concept Design;
the Concept Design submitted by the Artist must in all respects comply and conform with the requirements particularly set out and described in the Artist's Brief;
the Artist may incorporate elements derived from Indigenous heritage into their Concept Design only with the prior informed consent of the relevant Indigenous custodians/owners.
The Commissioning Party shall within 14 days after the Submission Date pay the Artist the Contract Fee set out at Item 4 of the First Schedule.
The Contract Fee will be paid according to the manner of payment outlined in Item 4 of the First Schedule.
No Contract Fee shall be paid by the Commissioning Party to the Artist pursuant to Clause 4.1 if:
the Artist fails to submit the Concept Design to the Commissioning Party on or before the Submission Date;
the Concept Design submitted does not relate to or comply with the requirements set out in the Artist's Brief;
the Concept Design submitted by the Artist has not been prepared in accordance with, or meet the standards required by Clause 3.1 herein.
The Commissioning Party must within 28 days of the Submission Date notify the Artist in writing as to the approval or otherwise of the Concept Design.
If the Artist's Concept Design is approved by the Commissioning Party pursuant to Clause 5 above, the Artist agrees to submit to the Commissioning Party a Developed Concept Design in accordance with the Artist's Brief and any instructions of the Commissioning Party.
The Developed Concept Design must be submitted to the Commissioning Party by the date specified in Item 6 of the First Schedule, or such other date as may be mutually agreed in writing ("Submission Date for the Developed Concept Design").
the Artist will apply its aesthetic skill and judgment and use materials of an appropriate character and quality to create the Developed Concept Design;
the Developed Concept Design submitted by the Artist must in all respects comply and conform with the Artist's Brief and any further instructions given to the Artist by the Commissioning Party.
In consideration for the Artist developing and amending the Concept Design, the Commissioning Party shall pay the Artist an extra design commission fee to be negotiated between the Parties and to be paid in the following instalments:
one half within 14 days of written approval of the Artist's Concept Design; and 
one half within 14 days of the Submission Date for the Developed Concept Design.
No extra design commission fee shall be paid by the Commissioning Party to the Artist pursuant to Clause 7.1 in the following circumstances:
where the Artist fails to submit the Developed Concept Design to the Commissioning Party on or before the Submission Date;
where the Developed Concept Design submitted does not comply with the requirements set out in the Artist's Brief or the instructions of the Commissioning Party;
where the Developed Concept Design submitted by the Artist has not been prepared in accordance with, or meet the standards required by Clause 6.3 herein.
The Commissioning Party must within 28 days of the Submission Date for the Developed Concept Design (or such other time as may be mutually agreed between the Parties) notify the Artist in writing as to the approval or otherwise of the Developed Concept Design.
The Artist shall not subcontract or sublet any part of the services under this Agreement without the prior written approval of the Commissioning Party which approval may be given or withheld in the absolute discretion of the Commissioning Party.
Any approval given to the Artist by the Commissioning Party to engage a subcontractor shall not relieve the Artist from any of its contractual obligations.
The Artist shall be responsible to the Commissioning Party for the work or services of the subcontractor or any employee or agent of the subcontractor.
The Artist shall ensure that each subcontractor shall provide and maintain insurance cover of no less a standard than required by the Artist under this Agreement.
The Commissioning Party may appoint a Contract Representative who shall be nominated in Item 3 of the First Schedule to act as a point of contact and to exercise the duties, discretions and powers vested in the Commissioning Party under this Agreement.
The appointment of a Commissioning Party's Contract Representative shall not prevent the exercise of any duty, discretion or power by the Commissioning Party.
The Commissioning Party may by written notice to the Artist, at any time, revoke the appointment and substitute another as its Contract Representative.
The Artist may appoint a Contract Representative (or equivalent or delegate) who shall be nominated in Item 3 of the First Schedule to fulfil the role of the Artist's Contract Representative to act as a point of contact and to exercise the duties, discretions and powers vested in the Artist under this Agreement.
The Artist may, with the prior written approval of the Commissioning Party, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld, revoke this appointment and shall substitute another Contract Representative.
All amounts payable pursuant to this Agreement are expressed to be exclusive of, but subject to, GST.
The Parties acknowledge that where GST is to be applied to any payment under this Agreement the amount payable shall be increased by multiplying the GST exclusive amount by the then applicable rate of GST.
The Parties agree that all Intellectual Property rights in the Concept Design and the Developed Concept Design belong to and remain with the Artist.
Upon payment of the relevant Contract Fee in full, title to the Concept Design and the Developed Concept Design shall vest in the Commissioning Party.
Concept Designs that do not receive the approval of the Commissioning Party within 28 days of their submission shall be returned to the Artist.
Notwithstanding Clause 12.1, the Artist grants permission to the Commissioning Party to use the Concept Design and the Developed Concept Design for the purposes and in the manner set out in Item 7 of the Schedule.
The Commissioning Party acknowledges that use, reproduction or communication of the Concept Design and/or the Developed Concept Design for any purpose other than those set out in Item 7 of the Schedule requires the prior written consent of the Artist and may be the subject of further fees and/or royalty payments on terms to be separately negotiated.
The Parties acknowledge that all Moral Rights of those entitled at law to assert them are preserved.
the Artist is the sole legal and beneficial owner of and has full right and title to copyright subsisting in the Concept Design and/or the Developed Concept Design;
the Concept Design and/or the Developed Concept Design is not copied wholly or substantially from any other party's work or material;
the Artist has not entered into any agreements or arrangements involving the sale, mortgage, pledge, granting of options or any other rights over the Artist's rights, title and interest subsisting in the Concept Design and the Developed Concept Design;
neither the execution of this Agreement nor the performance by the Artist of its obligations under this Agreement will cause the Artist to be in breach of any agreement to which it is party or is subject.
The Artist will indemnify and at all times keep the Commissioning Party fully indemnified against all claims, actions, proceedings, costs and damages whatsoever made against or incurred by the Commissioning Party in consequence of any breach of the warranties contained herein in Sub-clause 1.
The Commissioning Party may terminate this Agreement at any time and for whatever reason upon giving written notice to the Artist.
Upon such termination any Contract Fee paid or payable to the Artist shall be adjusted either by additional payment or refund by either Party according to the amount of artistic work done by the Artist in pursuance of this Agreement up to the date of receiving such notice.
The Artist may terminate this Agreement for any reason prior to the Submission Date for the Concept Design or the Developed Concept Design by notice in writing to the Commissioning Party.
If the Artist terminates this Agreement pursuant to Clause 14.2.1 then no Contract Fee shall be payable by the Commissioning Party and the Commissioning Party may recover any Contract Fee already paid to the Artist.
Subject to Clause 16, either Party may terminate this Agreement immediately on written notice to the other, while preserving to itself any rights which may have accrued to it, where the other Party:
commits a material breach of this Agreement which is not capable of being remedied; or
fails to remedy a breach capable of being remedied within a period stated by notice in writing (which period must be reasonable in the circumstances).
This Agreement will terminate automatically on the death or incapacity of the Artist in which case:
the Artist or his/her estate shall retain all payment made and owed to the Artist;
the Commissioning Party agrees to pay the Artist or the Artist's representative (as the case may be) that portion of the unpaid portion of the Contract Fee for the unfinished Concept Design or the Developed Concept Design that is in the Commissioning Party's reasonable opinion reflective of the degree of completeness of the design work when compared with the requirements of the Artist's Brief and the Commissioning Party's instructions; 
the Commissioning Party shall have the right to keep copies of the Concept Design and the Developed Concept Design for the sole purpose of completing the Work; and
the Work will be completed by an artist acceptable to both the Artist or the Artist's estate, and to the Commissioning Party.
If the Commissioning Party does not wish to have the Work completed all copies of the Concept Design and the Developed Concept Design will become the property of the Artist or the Artist's estate.
The Parties agree that any dispute arising during the course of this Agreement will be dealt with as follows:
the Party claiming that there is a dispute will send to the other a notice setting out the nature of the dispute;
the Parties will try to resolve the dispute by direct negotiation, including by referring the matter to persons who may have authority to intervene and direct some form of resolution;
the Parties have 10 business days from the sending of the notice to reach a resolution or to agree that the dispute will be submitted to mediation or some other form of alternative dispute resolution procedure; and

Despite the existence of a dispute, the Artist will (unless requested in writing not to do so) continue to perform its obligations under this Agreement.
This clause does not preclude either Party from commencing legal proceedings for urgent interlocutory or other relief.
The Parties agree that liquidated damages for failure to submit the Concept Design and/or the Developed Concept Design by the relevant submission date will entitle the Commissioning Party to liquidated damages in the sum specified in Item 8 of the First Schedule.
The Parties acknowledge that this is a reasonable and genuine pre-estimate of the actual loss incurred by the Commissioning Party as a result of the breach.
Each Party shall respect the confidentiality of the other Party's Confidential Information and neither Party shall, without the other Party's written consent, disclose or divulge the other Party's Confidential Information.
The duty of confidence referred to in this Clause 18 does not extend to Confidential Information which:
was in or becomes part of the public domain otherwise than as a result of a breach of this Agreement; or
is disclosed by a Party as required by law.
The Artist must not make or permit to be made a public announcement or media release about any aspect of this Agreement or the Public Art Project without the prior written consent of the Commissioning Party.
All notices required or permitted to be given under this Agreement:
must be in writing and sent to the relevant address provided in Items 1 or 2 (respectively) of the First Schedule; or
may be delivered by hand or sent by pre-paid letter or facsimile transmission; and
will be deemed to have been served if by hand when delivered, if by post 48 hours after posting and if by facsimile, upon receipt of confirmation of successful transmission.
No waiver by a party of any breach of this Agreement is binding unless it is made expressly and confirmed in writing.
A modification or variation of this Agreement must be made in writing and signed by both parties.
Failure or omission by a Party to enforce or require strict compliance with a provision of this Agreement does not affect or impair that provision or the right of the Party to avail themselves of any remedies they may have in respect of any breach of this Agreement.
Neither Party may assign this Agreement or any of his or her rights under this Agreement without the prior written consent of the other Party.
If any provision of this Agreement is void or unenforceable, all other provisions which are self sustaining and capable of separate enforcement without regard to the invalid or unenforceable provisions are and will continue to be valid and enforceable in accordance with their terms.
Neither party shall be liable for any delay or failure to perform its obligations pursuant to this Contract if such delay is due to Force Majeure.
If a delay or failure of a party to perform its obligations is caused or anticipated due to Force Majeure the performance of that party's obligations will be suspended.
If a delay or failure by a party to perform its obligations due to Force Majeure exceeds ninety (90) calendar days either party may immediately terminate the Contract on providing notice in writing to the other party.
This Agreement is governed by and is to be construed in accordance with the laws in force in South Australia and the parties submit to the jurisdiction of its courts.
Each party must bear its own costs of and incidental to the negotiation and preparation of this Agreement.

The Participating Centre agrees to perform the Study at the premises of the Participating Centre through the Principal Investigator in accordance with the Protocol, Good Clinical Practice Guidelines, Regulatory Guidelines, applicable State and Commonwealth legislation and HREC guidelines.
The Participating Centre must ensure that the Principal Investigator:

reads and understands the Protocol;

supervises and takes responsibility for the overall conduct of the Study at the Participating Centre in accordance with the Protocol and reasonable direction from the Coordinating Centre;

is cognisant of and complies with the Good Clinical Practice Guidelines, Regulatory Guidelines, applicable State and Commonwealth legislation and HREC guidelines;

attains HREC and regulatory approval to conduct the Study and provides progress, amendment and adverse event reports to the Coordinating Centre as required;

supervises and manages the Research Coordinator and ensures that other personnel as required are familiar with the Study;

is available with the Research Coordinator for training and Study-related meetings;

is available, with the Research Coordinator, for monitoring visits conducted by the Study Project Manager and assists with auditing of patient records and source documentation and further auditing as reasonably requested;

takes responsibility for the enrolment of eligible patients into the Study and timely, accurate and complete data collection for the Study follow-up period and responds to all data queries within the requested time frame;

takes responsibility for overseeing the acquisition of informed consent from patients or their next of kin or legal surrogate in line with approved mechanisms provided by the HREC;

notifies the Participating Centre of any concurrently running clinical trials or other studies being conducted at the same time as the Study that may conflict with the Study; and

provides miscellaneous reports and other information or services as reasonably requested by the Participating Centre or the Coordinating Centre.
Subject to clause 3.2, the parties agree to each be responsible for all liabilities, costs, losses and expenses (including but not limited to legal fees) arising out of their own (and their respective employees', students', medical and professional staff, agents' and representatives') acts or omissions (including negligence) in the performance of their duties.
The Participating Centre must indemnify the Coordinating Centre and keep the Coordinating Centre indemnified against all liabilities, costs, losses and expenses which the Coordinating Centre incurs as a result of a breach of this Agreement or the Protocol by the Participating Centre, its employees, students, medical and professional staff, agents and representatives.
In consideration for performing the Study, the Coordinating Centre will make payments to the Participating Centre in accordance with the Study budget as set out in Schedule 2.
These payments are to assist with the cost of employing research staff for the duration of the Study.
There will be no "in advance" payments for the Study, however any fees required by individual participating centres for submission of ethics applications shall be covered by the Study budget.
Notwithstanding which party owns the Intellectual Property in the results of the Study, the parties agree to adhere to the principles set out in this clause 5 for use of the data from the Study.
The parties agree that the Principal Investigator and the Participating Centre shall have the right to present at symposia, national or regional professional meetings, and to publish in journals or other publications any data or information derived from the Study provided that:
the Participating Centre must not (and must ensure that the Principal Investigator does not) present or publish data derived from the Study until the complete multi-centre Study has been published in full;
the Participating Centre provides the Executive Committee with copies of the submission for the proposed presentation or publication materials in advance for approval;
following approval from the Executive Committee, the Participating Centre provides the Steering Committee with copies of the submission for the proposed presentation or publication materials in advance of the presentation or publication date for review and comments;
the multi-centre publication, led by the Coordinating Centre, is published before all other individual or partial group presentations, unless such publication does not take place within 18 months of the end of the Study.
In all publications, appropriate credit must be given to all contributors.
Prior to or during the course of the Study, the parties may provide or may have provided one another with Confidential Information.
Subject to clauses 5.2, 5.3 and 5.5, a party receiving Confidential Information shall use reasonable efforts to not disclose the Confidential Information to anyone other than as provided for in this Agreement or in the Protocol without the prior written approval of the disclosing party.
This obligation shall survive the expiry or early termination of this Agreement and shall remain in effect for a period of five years following the expiry or early termination of the Study.
Furthermore, any party receiving Confidential Information shall not use, either directly or indirectly, any Confidential Information for any purpose other than as set out in this Agreement without the prior written consent of the disclosing party.
The obligations of clause 5.4 shall not apply to Confidential Information which:
must be disclosed to potential patients during the recruitment process, and patients who are or were enrolled in the Study or any of their legal guardians, in order to obtain and maintain informed consent or as the information relates to their health, safety or diagnosis;

must be disclosed to the HREC of the Participating Centre or, if the Study is multi-centre, must be disclosed to HRECs of Participating Centres reviewing the Protocol in order to coordinate the review; or

is required by statute or judicial process to be disclosed.
In the event that a party ("receiving party") is required by judicial or administrative process to disclose any Confidential Information disclosed to it by the other party ("disclosing party"), the receiving party shall promptly notify the disclosing party and allow the disclosing party reasonable time to oppose such process before disclosing any Confidential Information.
The Participating Centre must protect the privacy of all patients enrolled in the Study at the Participating Centre in accordance with the Protocol and all privacy laws in force in the Participating Centre's country.
The parties agree that:

the Principal Publications will be in the names of the Chief Investigator and the Executive Committee;

there will be a full listing of collaborating Principal Investigators and Participating Centres at the end of the Principal Publications; and

funding bodies that have supported the Study will also receive acknowledgment at the end of all publications.
All Intellectual Property owned by a party at the commencement of this Agreement remains the property of that party.
All Intellectual Property (including, without limitation, inventions, discoveries, new uses, processes, or compounds) developed solely by a party under this agreement remains and is hereby assigned as the sole property of that party.
All Intellectual Property (including, without limitation, inventions, discoveries, new uses, processes, or compounds) developed jointly by the parties and any other Participating Centres (together, "Inventors") shall be owned by and is hereby assigned as the joint property of the Inventors as tenants in common.
The ownership share of each Inventor will be in proportion to each Inventor's contribution to the development of the Intellectual Property.
If the parties cannot agree on their respective ownership rights under clause 7.3, this shall be resolved in accordance with the dispute resolution process set out in clause 10.
The parties agree that where there is a dispute between any of the Inventors arising from this and other agreements relating to the Study, the dispute resolution process in clause 10 may be applied to resolve the dispute between all the Inventors simultaneously as if all the Inventors in dispute were parties to this Agreement.
Notwithstanding ownership of Intellectual Property as set out in this clause, each party's right to publish data or other results from the Study shall be governed by the provisions of clause 5.
Subject to any confidentiality obligation or any applicable laws, the Participating Centre agrees to make all Study data available to the Coordinating Centre or to any relevant government regulatory authority for audit purposes, in accordance with the Protocol.
The Participating Centre must retain all information relating to patients and other data relating to the Study for 15 years following completion or discontinuation of the Study, or as otherwise required by law.
A party may terminate this Agreement by giving 30 days' written notice to the other party.
A party may terminate this Agreement immediately, by giving notice in writing to the other party, if any of the following occurs:
the other party commits a breach of this Agreement which is not rectifiable;
a party fails to rectify a breach of this Agreement which is rectifiable within 30 days after receiving a written notice from the other party specifying the breach and requiring the first party to rectify it;
the party reasonably believes that continuing the Study would compromise patient safety.
approval to conduct the Study is withdrawn by the relevant regulatory or health authorities or by the HREC; or
the parties agree in writing that it is inappropriate, impractical or inadvisable to continue the Study.
If a dispute arises under this Agreement, a party must immediately give written notice to the other party, giving details of the dispute and requesting that a meeting take place to discuss it.
A nominated representative of each party must meet within 7 days after the notice is received.
They must try, in good faith, to resolve the dispute.
If the meeting does not take place or the dispute remains unresolved 7 days after the meeting, either party to the dispute may refer the matter to mediation by giving written notice to the other party.
If the parties do not agree on a mediator within 5 days thereafter, he or she is to be nominated by the President of the Law Institute of Victoria or his or her nominee.
The mediation must be held within 14 days after the mediation notice is given.
Each party must contribute equally to the fees and expenses of the mediator.
If the mediation does not result in resolution of the dispute within 14 days after the mediation notice is given, either party may take legal proceedings.
Clauses 10.1 and 10.2 do not restrict or limit the right of a party to obtain interlocutory relief, or to immediately terminate this Agreement where this Agreement provides such a right.
No waiver of any provision of this Agreement will be of any force or effect unless confirmed in writing, signed by the parties.
Then such waiver will be effective only to the extent for which it is made.
The invalidity or unenforceability of any provisions of this Agreement will not affect the validity or enforceability of all other provisions that are self-sustaining and capable of separate enforcement.
This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement and understanding between the parties with respect to its subject matter.
It replaces all previous agreements between, or undertakings by, either of the parties with respect to its subject matter.
This Agreement can only be changed by the written agreement of the parties.
The laws of the State of Victoria, Australia will govern this Agreement.
Each party submits to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of the courts of that state and courts entitled to hear appeals from those courts.
Clauses 3, 5 and 7 will continue to apply after this Agreement ends.
Neither party will be liable for any failure or delay in the performance of its obligations under this Agreement to the extent that such failure or delay arises from any circumstances beyond its control.
The parties will, during the term of this Agreement (and, where expressly applicable, thereafter), execute and deliver all documents or instruments as may be required in order to give effect to the purpose and intent of this Agreement.
This Agreement will bind and enure for the benefit of the parties and their respective successors in title.
No party may assign any other respective rights and obligations without the prior written consent of the other parties.
The relationship between the parties is that of independent contractors and will not be deemed to be that of principal/agent, joint venture, partnership or otherwise.
No party is authorised to act on behalf of the other.


The Recipient must:
not copy or extract any Confidential Information without the prior written consent of the CEO; and
whenever the CEO asks, and if the Recipient's involvement with the Centre is terminated for any reason, promptly deliver to the Participant or the CRC Group all materials containing any of the Confidential Information, or (if the CEO asks) promptly destroy those materials and notify the CEO of their destruction.
The Recipient must immediately notify the Participant or the CEO in writing if the Recipient becomes aware of any unauthorised use or disclosure of any Confidential Information by any third party, or any possible or actual breach of the terms of this Deed.
In consideration of the Recipient's engagement to participate in the Activities or the management of the Centre (as the case may be), the Recipient assigns all Recipient Intellectual Property to the Company, to be held in accordance with the terms of the CRC Agreement.
Where the Recipient is an employee of the Participant:
the Recipient acknowledges that all Recipient Intellectual Property is owned by the Participant;
to avoid any doubt and to ensure that all Recipient Intellectual Property is assigned to the Company, the Recipient grants the assignment given under clause 3.1; and
the Participant assigns all of the Participant's right title and interest in all Recipient Intellectual Property to the Company, to be held in accordance with the terms of the CRC Agreement.
The Recipient agrees to assist the Participant and the CRC Group in every possible way (at the CRC Group's expense) to obtain and enforce any patent or other form of intellectual property protection of the Recipient Intellectual Property, including where it comprises part of Centre Intellectual Property, both during and after the period of the Recipient's involvement in the Centre.
The Recipient and the Participant agree to execute any document and to do all things that may be necessary to give effect to the assignments in clause 3.1 and 3.2 and, in the case of the Recipient, to provide assistance under clause 3.3.
The Recipient warrants and represents to the CRC Group and the Company that the Recipient:
is entitled to enter into this Deed, perform all of the Recipient's obligations under this Deed; and
does not breach any other agreement to which the Recipient is a party by entering into this Deed, and will not enter into any subsequent agreement whether written or oral which is inconsistent with, or will cause the Recipient to breach the terms of, this Deed.
The Recipient authorises the CRC Group to disclose the existence and the terms of this Deed to any person or organisation for the purposes relating to the Centre including, but not limited to, the Recipient's future employers, and customers and prospective customers of any CRC Group member.
The Participant warrants and represents to the CRC Group and the Company that it is entitled to enter into this Deed and grant the assignment given under clause 3.2.

The Company and RMIT have been involved in negotiations concerning the subject matter of this agreement.
The Company and RMIT have agreed that this document shall record the terms agreed in their negotiations.
In this agreement (including the Recitals and any Annexures or Schedules) unless the context otherwise requires:

a reference to this agreement or another instrument includes any amendment or replacement of it and despite any change in the identity of the parties;

if any party to this agreement comprises two or more persons then the obligations of those persons are joint and several;
a provision of this agreement which is in favour of two or more persons is for the benefit of them jointly and severally;
A reference to any person includes that person's legal personal representatives and if any person is a corporation a reference to that person includes its successors and assigns;
words denoting the singular number include the plural number and vice versa and words importing one gender include the other gender;


The Term of this agreement begins on Commencement Date and ends on Expiry Date, unless extended or terminated earlier due to default.
Prior to expiration of the Term, the parties may agree in writing to extend the Term.
The title to and all Intellectual Property Rights in RMIT Material remains the property of RMIT at all times.
Each party undertakes to keep secret and protect and preserve the confidential nature and secrecy of the Confidential Information of the other party.
Without limiting this obligation, a party must not:

use or permit any person to use the other party's Confidential Information for any purpose other than the performance of this agreement;
disclose or in any way communicate to any other person any of the other party's Confidential Information except as authorised by the other party;
permit unauthorised persons to have access to places where the other party's Confidential Information is displayed, reproduced or stored; or
make or assist any person to make any unauthorised use of the other party's Confidential Information.
Each party must take reasonable steps to enforce the confidentiality obligations imposed by sub-clause 1 above including diligently prosecuting, at its own cost, any breach or threatened breach of those obligations by a person to whom the party has disclosed the Confidential Information.
A party may disclose the other party's  Confidential Information to its advisers in relation to its rights under this agreement or to its employees and sub-contractors on a need to know basis, solely to assist in the performance of obligations under this agreement and on the condition that such persons do not disclose the Confidential Information to any other person.
The obligations of confidentiality under this agreement shall survive expiration or earlier termination of this agreement.
An Event of Default occurs if any one or more of the following events occurs in respect of a party ("defaulting party")
default be made by the defaulting party in the performance or observance of any other obligation on its part contained in this agreement and if such default can be remedied, is not remedied within fourteen (14) days of written notification from the other party that it requires that default to be remedied;
an Event of Insolvency occurs in respect of the defaulting party.
If an Event of Default occurs in respect of a defaulting party, then the other party may in its discretion terminate this agreement by written notification to the defaulting party.
The indemnity in clause 9.2 is given by each party to the other of them.
A party ("the indemnifying party") indemnifies and will keep indemnified the other party ("the indemnified party") and its officers, employees, agents, contractors and consultants from and against all actions, claims, proceedings or demands (including those brought by third parties) which may be brought against it or them, whether on their own or jointly with the indemnifying party in respect of any loss, death, injury, illness, damages, costs or expenses (but excluding consequential financial loss) where caused by any unlawful or negligent act of the indemnifying party, its employees, agents, sub-contractors or consultants arising from the indemnifying party's exercise of its rights or obligations under  this agreement or from any other loss which may arise from or as a result of any breach of the terms of this agreement by the indemnifying party, its employees, agents, sub-contractors or consultants.
The indemnifying party's obligation to indemnify the indemnified party and its officers, employees and agents set out in sub-clause 2 is a continuing obligation separate and independent from the indemnifying party's other obligations and will survive expiration or earlier termination of this agreement.
If a party becomes aware of any matter likely to constitute a Force Majeure Event affecting its obligations under this agreement, it must within 5 business days of the occurrence of the Force Majeure Event give to the other party a notice containing full particulars, including the likely effect of the Force Majeure Event on the relevant obligations ("suspension notice").
Where a party has provided a suspension notice, the non-financial obligations of that party under this agreement shall be suspended, to the extent they are effected by the Force Majeure Event, until the cessation of the Force Majeure Event provided however that the maximum periods of suspension of obligations under this clause shall be 6 months per event from the date of occurrence of the relevant Force Majeure Event.
The Company must effect and maintain at all times during the Term  the following insurances:

Public Liability insurance for an amount of not less than $10,000,000.
Professional Indemnity insurance for an amount of not less than *** [SEE USER NOTES].
Product Liability insurance for an amount of not less than *** [SEE USER NOTES].
The Company must provide RMIT with certified copies of all relevant policies upon being requested to do so by RMIT.
The Guarantor unconditionally and irrevocably guarantees to RMIT the performance of each of the Company's obligations under this agreement.
The Guarantor unconditionally and irrevocably indemnifies RMIT against all losses or costs arising out of any breach, or any losses or costs caused to another person, by the Company or by its employees, agents or sub-contractors.
The Guarantor will obtain independent legal advice about the decision of the Guarantor to assume the obligations and liability under this clause and acknowledges having read this agreement.
The Guarantor waives any right of first requiring RMIT to proceed against the Company before exercising its rights under this clause.
Where the Guarantor comprises more than one person, then the obligations of the Guarantor are joint and several.
The obligations and liability of the Guarantor under this clause are assumed by the Guarantor in consideration of RMIT agreeing to enter into this agreement with the Company.
If a dispute arises in respect of any aspect of this agreement which is capable of resolution between the parties, then the parties must attempt to resolve that dispute in good faith and no party shall be entitled to exercise any of its rights under this agreement or at law unless:

that party has served a notice on the other party requesting resolution of the dispute, and

the dispute has not been resolved within fourteen (14) days of the date of service of the notice.
A provision of or a right created by this agreement cannot be waived except in writing signed by the party granting the waiver.
No variation to or amendment of this agreement can be made without the consent in writing of all of the parties.
Where any provision of this agreement provides for a party to provide its consent or approval then such party may conditionally or unconditionally in its absolute discretion give or withhold such consent or approval unless this agreement expressly provides otherwise.
The parties agree to bear their own costs (including legal costs) in respect of this agreement.
The Company must not novate, assign or subcontract this agreement or any of its obligations under this agreement without the prior written consent of RMIT.
This agreement can be executed in a number of counterparts and the counterparts taken together will be deemed to constitute the one and the same document.
Any notice, demand, consent, approval or other communication ("a Communication") in connection with this agreement by a party may (without limitation to any other valid form of execution) be signed by an authorised officer of that party (if a corporation), or by any solicitor acting for that party, whose signature may be hand-written or printed or otherwise reproduced by mechanical means.
Service under sub-clause 2 will be valid even though the addressee may have been wound up or in liquidation (if a corporation) or the addressee is absent from the place at or to which the Communication is left, delivered or sent, or where the Communication is sent by post or otherwise, it is returned unclaimed.
A Communication in connection with this agreement will be deemed to have been received by the person:

if left or delivered personally, on the same day;

if sent by post to an address in Australia, on the second business day after the date of posting;

if sent by post to an address outside Australia, on the fourth business day after the date of posting;

in the case of a facsimile, on receipt of the facsimile in legible form.
Unless the parties otherwise agree in writing a Communication in connection with the agreement may not be sent by electronic mail ("email").

The Landowner shall do all things necessary to manage The Land in accordance with this Agreement and any Schedules and Annexure; and
This Agreement over freehold land is in perpetuity and binds all future owners and those with an interest in The Land.
The Landholder shall inform the Minister as soon as practicable after becoming aware of the existence and nature of any Threatening Process in relation to The Land.
The State may provide assistance to the Landholder, including:
advice on the control of pest plants and animals;
assistance with wildfire prevention and suppression;
assistance in enforcing any regulation pertaining to the Land.
The Landholder may, on invitation from the Queensland Parks and Wildlife Service, apply for financial assistance for management of the Land.
The State shall pay any relevant stamp duties associated with this Agreement.
Each party shall bear its own costs of negotiating and executing this Agreement.
The Landholder shall notify the Minister, within 14 days of the sale of The Land, of the name and address of the person or persons to whom The Land was sold or the lease transferred.
This Agreement shall not expire and is binding on the Landholder's Successors in Title and those with an interest in The Land.
The Landholder acknowledges that the State will not be liable for any act, or failure to act, which occurs on The Land, merely because of the commencement of this Agreement or the declaration of a Nature Refuge over The Land.
This Agreement may not be terminated unless the declaration of the Nature Refuge to which it relates is revoked in accordance with section 50 of the Act.
If a party believes it can demonstrate that the other party is in significant breach of this Agreement, the first party may give written notice requesting rectification;
If a significant breach of this Agreement is demonstrated, the parties undertake to use their best endeavours to cooperate to resolve the dispute within a period of 14 working days of notice given under clause 13(i);
If a dispute cannot be resolved under clauses 13(i) and (ii), a party may issue a "Notice of Dispute" to the other party, specifying the dispute and requiring its resolution in accordance with the remaining provisions of this clause;
If the dispute is not resolved within 14 days of service of the Notice of Dispute, the dispute is by this clause submitted to mediation.
The Institute of Arbitrators Australia "Rules for the Mediation of Commercial Disputes" (latest edition) apply to the mediation, except where they conflict with this Clause;
The parties agree to jointly determine the mediator (and the mediator's remuneration) within seven working days of the expiry of the Notice Period.
If agreement is not reached, the parties agree that the mediator will be the person appointed by (and the remuneration of the mediator is the amount or rate determined by) the President of the Queensland Law Society or the President's nominee, acting on the request of either party to the dispute;
Parties to the Agreement agree to share equally the costs of such mediation; 
If the dispute is not resolved within 28 working days after the appointment of the mediator, any party may take legal proceedings to resolve the dispute or may apply to the Minister for the Nature Refuge to be revoked; and
This Clause does not prevent any party from obtaining from a court or judge, any urgent injunctive, declaratory or interlocutory orders to protect that party's rights or position under the Agreement.
If any provision of this Agreement is found to be invalid, the remainder of the Agreement continues to apply.
None of the prohibitions and restrictions specified in this Agreement will apply to the extent necessary for reasonable protection from wildfire or other threatening events, having regard to the safety of human life and property.
Service will be deemed given:
by mail five (5) days after deposit in the mail with postage prepaid; or
when delivered by hand; or
by facsimile upon apparently successful transmission being noted by the sender's facsimile machine; or
by e-mail upon apparently successful transmission being noted by the sender's computer.
Landholder shall assist in the protection, preservation and conservation of the Conservation Area, by strictly adhering to the following conditions:
subject to clause 2 of this Schedule 2, no forest product whether living or dead, or other plant life on the Conservation Area may be trimmed, pruned, cut down, damaged, destroyed, moved, harvested or removed from the Conservation Area;
no part of the Conservation Area, including soil, gravel or rock may be  disturbed, explored for minerals, moved or removed from the Conservation Area;
other than required by law or regulation, no herbicides, insecticides or pesticides may be applied or introduced on or to the Conservation Area;
there may be no alteration or interference with the hydrology of the Conservation Area, unless the Landowner receives the prior written consent of the other party;
the Conservation Area must not be polluted or contaminated by any matter, in particular, weeds or pathogens;
there must be no interference with, or alteration of, any wetland or body of water in or on the Conservation Area;
subject to clause 4 of this Schedule 2, no fixtures or improvements, including buildings or other structures may be built, affixed or placed on the Conservation Area;
without limiting clause 4 of this Schedule 2, no road or trail, walking track or other nature based recreation activity may be laid out, constructed or undertaken on the Conservation Area, unless the Landowner has received the prior written consent of the Minister;
without limiting clause 4 of this Schedule 2, no fill, soil, rock, rubbish, ashes, garbage, waste or other material foreign to the Conservation Area may be deposited in or on the Conservation Area;
the Landowner must not introduce onto the Conservation Area any animals which are not native to the Conservation Area; and take reasonable measures to prevent the entry of non-indigenous fauna, including domestic and feral animals;
the Landowner must take reasonable measures to prevent the introduction, establishment and spread of weeds and weed infestations and control any weeds to reduce their impact on the natural environment;
unless required by law, there is no exploration or mining, extraction or production of gas, petroleum, minerals or other substances or the establishment of any transmission lines or other services or works; and if proposing any of these activities, the Landholder shall notify the Minister and shall not undertake, consent to or approve such proposal without the prior written permission of the Minister;
subdivision of the Land is not permitted or to be applied for ; and
no other acts may be carried out on or in respect of the Conservation Area which, in the opinion of the Minister, acting reasonably, may have a detrimental impact on the Conservation Area.
Notwithstanding the provisions of clause 1 of this Schedule 2:
if any living or dead tree on the Conservation Area poses a threat to the safety of those on or immediately adjacent to the land by its falling or fire, that tree may be cut down or trimmed without the prior written consent of the other party, so as to remove the risk, but the Landowner and the other party agree that unless it would constitute a fire hazard, the cut tree or trimmings must be left on the Conservation Area so that natural processes can occur; 
any sustainable harvesting of native seed and fruit, in accordance with the Nature Conservation (Protected Areas) Regulation 1994, and the Code of Practice for the Taking and Use of Protected Plants (2001) is permitted; and
scientific research conducted in an ecologically sustainable manner, including the collection of specimens for the purpose of species identification; biodiscovery; and commercialisation from such discoveries; and for the long term protection and maintenance of the ecosystems and ecosystem processes of The Conservation Area and similar areas, subject to any necessary permits and authorities under relevant legislation is permitted.
The Landowner shall not deny access to the Conservation Area to the other party's, authorised officers, employees, servants or agents, on reasonable notice from them for the purpose of observation and monitoring of the Conservation Area.
The construction and maintenance of walking tracks, viewing platforms, rest points access, driveway, or crossing and seating, for nature based recreation activities, to best practice construction standards; 
Conduct of low impact private or commercial nature based recreational and educational activities;
Habitat restoration including weed control and revegetation utilising species associated with Regional Ecosystem types 7.3.3, 7.3.5, 7.3.7, 7.3.10 and 7.11.1;
Use of fire to maintain vegetation structure and diversity;
The erection of interpretive and promotional signs with the purpose of interpreting the natural values of The Conservation Area and or the Development Area and the contribution of any sponsors in the protection and restoration of the natural values of The Conservation Area and the Development Area; 
on the Conservation Area, the landowner shall liaise with the other party to determine the most environmentally beneficial placement of such things; and


The following activities subject always to the approval of any relevant authority may be undertaken on, or in respect to, The Development Area:
Construction of a dwelling or dwellings and other buildings or structures;
Construction and maintenance of walking tracks, viewing platforms, rest points and seating, for nature based recreation activities, to best practice construction standards; 
Conduct of low impact private or commercial nature based recreational and educational activities;
Habitat restoration including weed control and revegetation utilising species associated with Regional Ecosystem types 7.3.3, 7.3.5, 7.3.7, 7.3.10 and 7.11.1;
Use of fire to maintain vegetation structure and diversity;
The erection of interpretive and promotional signs with the purpose of interpreting the natural values of The Conservation Area and or the Development Area and the contribution of any sponsors in the protection and restoration of the natural values of The Conservation Area and the Development Area; 
Horses and cattle are restricted in numbers to the carrying capacity of the Development Area;
No dogs, cats, pigs, goats or other livestock is permitted with the exception of poultry for home use, without the written permission before the event of the Minister;
Keeping of any permitted livestock to be undertaken only once secure fencing and feeding and watering facilities are in place restricting any animals from accessing the Conservation Area;
The Landowner will use their best endeavours to exclude feral animals from the Development Area and undertake immediate control actions to deal with the incursion of feral animals;
Only locally endemic native plants are permitted to exist in the Development Area, excluding fruit and vegetables; 
No vegetable matter, including grass clippings, material from pruning or seeds or fruits from the Development Area should deposited on the Conservation Area;
All plants which are listed as Declared Plants under the Land Protection (Stock Route Management) Act 2003 are not permitted to be grown or allowed to grow on the Development Area;
Fire may be used as an ecological tool only within areas where fire is a natural or necessary occurrence;
Planning and implementation of prescribed burns should be carried out in conjunction with responsible agencies;
The Landowner shall undertake any necessary works to minimise soil erosion; 
Harvesting and storage of rainfall from roof areas using above-ground tanks and the capture of ground and rain water in a dam is permitted; and
Interaction with native fauna is limited to observation and recording and care for their habitats.
The Landholder shall undertake the following monitoring and reporting actions:
A record of any rare or threatened wildlife sighted on The Land;
A record shall be kept of any habitat restoration works undertaken on The Conservation Area, either through privately or publicly funded projects.
This includes weed control methods, herbicides used, tree species planted and site location details; 
Where works are undertaken on the Conservation Area under any government provided special project funding, a copy of the Project Completion Report will serve as the record for those works;
A record of fires on the Conservation Area from managed and natural sources shall be kept.
This includes time and date of fires, locations burnt and intensity of fire; and
The Landholder shall collect the above information as necessary and provide a report to the other party every five years from the date of signing of this agreement.
Unusual or exceptional business models not covered by this Clause 3.3 or Appendix 4 shall fall within the scope of Appendix 2 which may be updated on a case-by-case basis where mutually agreed by the parties.
Client's share shall be subject to written mutual acceptance.
PARTNER shall invoice PARTNER's clients regularly with the term of payment common and usual within the field of this kind of business, but no greater than thirty (30) days from date of invoice.
Unless otherwise stated in writing (email), PARTNER is not allowed to use third party add-ons and/or other additional services to alter or modify a Product.
The Parties acknowledge that all Service delivery terms shall be mutually agreed between the Parties before making commercial arrangements with a Client.
BAREFOOT may have some guidelines and minimum requirements that the Parties need to follow.
Such requirements are end user fee and Client's revenue share.
Such requirements shall be stated on separate documentation and informed to BAREFOOT clearly and accurately before entering into any commercial arrangements, delivered case by case without BAREFOOT's separate request.
BAREFOOT is responsible for the technical and artistic quality of the Products and warrants that all Products to be of the same high quality as applications which BAREFOOT has provided to its other partners and clients.
The Product portfolio shall be updated with the latest releases without any delay after the newest release.
PARTNER is solely responsible for ensuring that the Services offered by Clients under this Agreement always conform to law and good custom in the Territory.
In case of revenue sharing agreement, revenue to be paid to BAREFOOT shall be calculated based on the total funds received from billed volume, based on the monthly report coming from each Client.
All fees and payment shall be paid in <<AGREED CURRENCY>>.
PARTNER shall organize online reporting tools for BAREFOOT to use indicating the number of downloaded transactions of the Licensed Products.
PARTNER shall make payment to BAREFOOT within ten (10) working days from the end of every month of its share entitlements to all revenue accrued for that month from all Clients or other forms of distribution.
In case of any other payment terms such as sponsor payment, set up fee, integration fee, customization fee, or similar, those shall be treated similarly as revenue share if outside the scope of Clause 3.3.
PARTNER shall keep all the usual proper records and books of account relating to distribution and downloading of the Products under this Agreement.
BAREFOOT may audit those books and records and conduct such audit only during PARTNER's usual business hours, and at the place where it keeps the books and records to be examined, after providing at least thirty (30) days prior notice.
Such audit shall be conducted at BAREFOOT's sole expense, except that if any audit reveals an error resulting in an underpayment to BAREFOOT of five percent (5%) or more of the total amount accounted to BAREFOOT during the accounting periods audited, then PARTNER shall pay to BAREFOOT all reasonable audit costs, including travel, hotel together with the underpayment.
The Parties represent, warrant and agree that they have the full right, power and authority to enter into this Agreement and fulfill the duties and responsibilities stated hereunder.
BAREFOOT shall not in any circumstances contact directly PARTNER's Clients or prospects (that have been brought to the attention of BAREFOOT by PARTNER) without PARTNER's prior consent and knowledge and all inquiries received from said companies must be brought to PARTNER's attention by BAREFOOT for servicing and follow up.
Such Clients will be subject to revenue share fee stated in Clause 3.3.
Each party hereunder will hold the other party, its successors, assigns, agents and licensees, free and harmless from and against any and all claims, demands, damages, expenses, losses or costs (including reasonable attorney's fees and costs), or any sums paid in settlement, arising out of or incurred as a direct result of any actual breach of the representations, warranties, agreements and undertakings of or by the party concerned.
The parties acknowledge and agree that the trademark, service mark, logo and trade name as applied to this Agreement are the property of the original titleholders and each party is committed to avoiding any infringement of trademark, service mark and trade name.
PARTNER shall take all steps to secure and maintain protection of the Products as permitted pursuant to copyright and equivalent or similar laws through the Territory.
This Agreement shall become effective on the date of execution of this Agreement, and shall continue in force for a period of twelve (12) months ("Initial Term").
Upon the expiry of the Initial Term, this Agreement shall automatically and annually be renewed for another 12 months  ("Renewal Term") unless either party wishes to terminate the Agreement by giving at least thirty (30) days prior written notice.
For a period of eighteen (18) months after the agreement termination, any BAREFOOT products/services sale to PARTNER's Client will be subject to the revenue share fee as stated in Clause 3.3.
Either party may by written notice terminate this Agreement with immediate effect if the other party has committed a material breach of this Agreement, and not rectified the same within a time which shall be reasonable taking into account previous technical and other relevant conditions after receipt of a written request specifying the breach from the other party.
From the date of termination of this agreement as described in Clauses 5.1 and 5.3, the parties shall account for all outstanding monies due within 15 working days after receiving payment from mobile network operators or Clients.
After the termination of this Agreement, the Parties will refrain from further direct or indirect use of the information obtained from the other Party.
Also, either Party must immediately give up all the copies of the Products, Product guides, books, and goods, correspondence and other documents in the wider sense of the word that it has in its possession when this Agreement terminates (for example documents, diskettes, CD's, DVD's and so on), which are connected to the other Party, or copies of any such documents or notes.
Except for termination due to the breach of this Agreement by PARTNER, PARTNER may complete transactions that have already been initiated with Clients and the applicable terms and conditions of this Agreement shall be extended for the time necessary to complete such transactions.
Each party shall keep confidential all provisions of this Agreement and shall not make any public announcement of it or its subject matter without the other party's prior written consent.
Each party agrees not to use or disclose the Confidential Information disclosed to it by the other party for any purpose except to further the objective of this Agreement.
Each party agrees that it will take all reasonable measures to protect the secrecy of and avoid disclosure or use of confidential Information of the other in order to prevent it from falling into the public domain or possession of persons other that those persons authorized thereunder to have any such information, which measures shall include at least a reasonable degree of care.
This provision shall be binding on the parties and shall be treated and safeguarded thereunder by the Receiving Party for a period, which shall coincide with the entire duration of this Agreement.
Both Parties shall indemnify, hold harmless and defend the other Party and its partners, principals, employees or agents thereof (each of the foregoing being hereinafter referred to individually as an "Indemnified Party") against all claims, liabilities, losses, expenses (including attorney's fees and legal expenses related to such defense), fines, penalties, taxes or damages (collectively "Liabilities") asserted by any third party where such Liabilities arise out of (i) the negligence or willful misconduct of either Party or its personnel; (ii) the representations or warranties made by either Party; (iii) the violation by either Party, or violation caused by the exploitation of work, information or materials provided by either Party, of any third party's trade secrets, proprietary information, trademark, copyright, or patent rights; or (iv) a third party claim by any employee, independent contractor or invite of either Party including without limitation those seeking employer-employee claims or benefits from either Party.
Nothing contained or implied in this Agreement shall constitute or be deemed to constitute a partnership/Joint Venture between the parties and no party shall have authority to bind or commit the other party except as provided herein.
This agreement shall be interpreted and construed in all respects in accordance with Hong Kong law and any dispute arising hereunder shall be subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of the Special Administrative Region of Hong Kong court.
All modifications and additions to this Agreement and appendices must be made in writing and must be signed by both Parties.
Such occurrences may be but shall not be limited to war, mutiny, internal unrest, expropriation, or confiscation for public needs, embargo, discontinuation of public transportation, or supply of energy, labour conflict or fire or some unusual event with equally drastic effects beyond the Parties' control.
Any notice, consent, approval, or correspondence between relating parties shall be in writing in English and shall be deemed served if sent to addresses indicated herebelow by personal delivery or registered mail or electronic mail or facsimile, provided that if sent by facsimile a registered or personal confirmation must be sent within twenty-four (24) hours after the transmission to the following addresses:


BAREFOOT may introduce some of its Clients or other business partners to PARTNER for the purpose of coordination of defined projects and boosting the sales (all duties referred to hereinafter as "Sales Promoter Activities").
In any circumstances PARTNER may not use appointed Clients or BAREFOOT's business partners for its own use without BAREFOOT's prior consent.
Violation shall be considered a material breach of this Agreement and grounds for termination as set out in 5.3.
All other terms and roles shall be agreed case by case once they are appointed to PARTNER.
BAREFOOT will provide demo projects given that more detail is required to publishing these types of titles.
General specifications are;

Background Image for first screen - 240 x 300 - JPG image to be less than 10kb
Cover Images for each section saved as cover.png (PNG8) 105 (w) x 140 (h)
Each section that will be displayed on the first screen will be driven by number of folders.
Each Folder (section) will contain a text file call content.txt containing TAGS for Headers (which are displayed in the Table of Contents section, within the section), placement of Images within the section.
Images should be a maximum of 240 pixels wide, and 260 pixels high for best results on a 240 x 320 screen.
Best image formats are PNG8 and JPG and GIF (PNG8 for best results)
Application icons, plus JAR title and file name are same specifications used in mBookX 

For each eBookX title tweaking will be required between BAREFOOT and the PARTNER to get the desired results for final build.
Under this model, BAREFOOT will charge a commitment fee which covers the cost of packaging (same as Non-commercial Demo model).
The published titles will be marketed directly by PARTNER or PARTNER's clients to gain "commercial" revenue.
Ownership of Intellectual Property and Confidential Information

As against NAME, CDx, is and will, to the full extent and for the full period permitted by law, remain the owner of:

CDx's Confidential Information; and

CDx's Intellectual Property.
As against CDx, NAME, is and will, to the full extent and for the full period permitted by law, remain the owner of:
  
NAME's Confidential Information; and

NAME's Intellectual Property.
Subject to the limitations of Clause 2.3, each party covenants that it will not hold itself out as owning nor deal or purport to deal in any way with any of the other party's Confidential Information or Intellectual Property without the prior written consent of the other party.
The discussion of the parties' respective Intellectual Property and Confidential Information is not an offer for sale of any materials that may be discussed, and neither party shall be under any obligation to license or transfer its Intellectual Property or Confidential Information to the other party; and each party reserves the right to license or transfer its own Intellectual Property or Confidential Information to whichever party or parties as it may, in its sole discretion, determine advisable, or not at all.
In consideration of the mutual covenants of the parties to this Agreement, and subject to Clause 2.3, the Recipient covenants in favour of the Discloser that it will not without the prior written consent of the Discloser:
copy, communicate, publish or disclose the Confidential Information of the Discloser; nor
cause or allow the Confidential Information of the Discloser to be copied by or communicated, published or disclosed verbally, in writing, by electronic means or by any other means or medium,

The Recipient will do all things necessary to ensure that its employees, researchers, consultants and agents comply with the Recipient's obligations under Clause 2.1.
This Agreement will not apply to any part of the Confidential Information or Intellectual Property that:
was known or possessed by the Recipient at the time of the disclosure to the Recipient by the Discloser, the onus of proving which rests with the Recipient;
is or may be legally acquired by the Recipient from any third party that has the right to disclose except where the Confidential Information or Intellectual Property is provided to the Recipient by a third party at the request of the Discloser;
is disclosed by the Recipient pursuant to any law or order of any court, or any governmental agency or other regulatory body with which the Recipient is bound to comply;
was already in the public domain, other than by reason of the Recipient having disclosed it, at the date on which it was used or disclosed by the Recipient, the onus of proving which shall be on the Recipient; or 
was independently developed by the Recipient or its agents or employees without knowledge of or reliance on the Confidential Information disclosed to Recipient by the Discloser.
Notwithstanding Clauses 2.3 (a) through (e), information disclosed by one party to another shall still be deemed Confidential Information of the Discloser subject to the protection of this Agreement if such disclosed information is:

a specific embodiment that is only generally described by  information in the public domain or the Recipient's possession; or

a combination that can be pieced together and reconstructed from multiple sources, none of which shows the whole combination of materials, its principle of operation, and method of use.
The Recipient will, within ten days of receiving written notice from the Discloser requesting the return of the Confidential Information:
return in a secure and confidential manner all written or eye or machine readable versions and copies of  any or all of the Confidential Information (as the notice requires); and
delete or destroy any other record (including electronic) of any part of the Confidential Information required by the Discloser to be returned which cannot be physically delivered to the Discloser; 
except that Recipient's Legal Department may keep one copy of the Confidential Information in its files for the purpose of Recipient determining its compliance with its obligations under this Agreement.
This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of Queensland. 


This Agreement may be referred to as the National Third Party Access Code for Natural Gas Pipeline Systems:  Fifth Amending Agreement.
In this Agreement, unless the contrary intention appears, capitalised terms not otherwise defined have the meaning given in the Code and:

At the end of section 8.36 of the Code insert:
Non Capital Costs may include, but are not limited to, costs incurred for generic market development activities aimed at increasing long-term demand for the delivery of the Reference Service.
This Agreement may consist of a number of counterparts and if so the counterparts taken together constitute one and the same instrument.

The Consultant must perform the Services in a diligent manner, with all necessary skill and care and in accordance with all the representations and warranties as to the Consultant's experience and ability expressly or impliedly made by reference to its Proposal and this Agreement, or by law.
The Consultant must use all reasonable efforts to have informed itself and to remain informed of the requirements of the Principal in performing the Services under this Agreement and to this end must regularly consult with the Principal during the performance of the Services to the satisfaction of the Principal.
The Consultant must perform the Services expeditiously and in accordance with the time limits if any specified in Item 2 of the Schedule.
The Consultant has no authority to enter into any agreement on behalf of the Principal without the prior written approval of the Principal.
Consent given by the Principal in accordance with this clause does 	not relieve the Consultant from its obligations under this 	Agreement.
The Consultant accepts all responsibility for the secure guardianship   of Principal's Materials.
Upon completion of this Agreement or in the event of termination, the Consultant must as soon as practicable return to the Principal the Principal's Materials and the Contract Material.
Clause 3.5(b) does not operate to prevent the Consultant from keeping a bona fide copy of the Contract Materials for its records subject always to Clause 3.6.
The Consultant must not without prior written consent of the 			Principal disclose any information in connection with the Services 		or this Agreement to any person not a party to this Agreement other 		than:
as necessary to perform the Services or
with respect to any matter within public knowledge.
The Consultant acknowledges and agrees that clause 3.6 will  		survive the expiration or termination of this Agreement.
The Consultant must not assign or sub-contract any part of the 	Services without the prior written consent of the Principal.
The Principal may impose any terms and conditions it considers 	appropriate when giving its approval under clause 3.7(a).
Consent given by the Principal in accordance with this clause does 	not relieve the Consultant from its obligations under this 	Agreement.
The Consultant agrees, in carrying out this Agreement, to comply 	with:
All relevant legislation of the Commonwealth particularly the Crimes Act 1914, Racial Discrimination Act 1975, Sex Discrimination Act 1984 and Disability Discrimination Act 1992), or of any State, Territory or local authority; 
Any obligations it has under the Affirmative Action (Equal Employment Opportunity for Women) Act 1986; 
Any obligation it has under the Occupational Health and 	Safety Act legislation; and

The Consultant agrees, for so long as any obligations remain in connection with this Agreement:
To effect and maintain all necessary insurance including but not limited to Workers Compensation, Professional Indemnity and Public Liability for all the Consultant's obligations under this Agreement, including those which survive the expiration or termination of this Agreement; and
Upon request, provide proof of insurance acceptable to the Principal.
The Consultant warrants that at the date of this Agreement no conflict with the interests of the Principal exists or is likely to arise in the performance of the Services.
Immediately upon becoming aware of the existence, or possibility of a conflict of interest arising the Consultant must advise the Principal in writing, make full disclosure of all relevant information relating to the conflict and take such steps as the Principal may reasonably require to resolve or otherwise deal with the conflict
If the Consultant does not notify the Principal or is unable or unwilling to resolve or deal with the conflict as required, the Principal may terminate this Agreement in accordance with the provisions of clause 9.
The Consultant agrees that it will not, and will use its best endeavours to ensure that any officer, employee, agent or subcontractor of the Consultant does not, engage in any activity or 		obtain any interest during the course of this Agreement that is likely 		to conflict with or restrict the Consultant in providing the Services 		to the Principal fairly and independently.
The Consultant must upon reasonable notice from the Principal provide to the Principal access to the premises occupied by the Consultant where the Services are being performed in order for the Principal to inspect, discuss or assess the provision of Services.
The Consultant warrants that its relationship to the Principal is one of an independent consultant providing services to the Principal and as such; 
The Consultant will not be entitled to make any claim upon the Principal in respect of any workers compensation, superannuation, sickness, accident, holiday, long service leave payments or any other entitlements; and
The Consultant will indemnify the Principal against any such liability loss, demand or claim if the Consultant is for any reason or by any person deemed to be an employee of the Principal such that the Principal becomes liable to pay monies (including PAYE tax) on behalf of the Consultant.
This clause applies only where the Consultant deals with personal information for the purpose of providing the Services under this   Agreement.
The Consultant acknowledges that it is a 'contracted service provider' within the meaning of section 6 of the Privacy Act 1988 (the Privacy Act), and agrees in respect of the provision of services under this Agreement:
Not to do any act or engage in any practice that would breach an Information Privacy Principle (IPP) contained in section 14 of the Privacy Act, which if done or engaged in by the Principal would be a breach of that IPP;
To notify individuals whose personal information the Consultant holds, that complaints about acts or practices of the Consultant may be investigated by the Privacy Commissioner who has power to award compensation against the Consultant in appropriate circumstances;
To carry out and discharge the obligations contained in the IPPs as if it were an agency under that Act, including to comply with the requirements relating to collection, storage, access, alteration, use and disclosure of personal information, and in particular:
As required by IPP 5 - to provide information about the records containing personal information which the Consultant holds; and
As required by IPPs 6 and 7 - to allow individuals to access and amend their own personal information except where the Consultant is authorised or required by law to refuse this.
Not to use or disclose personal information or engage in an act
or practice that would breach section 16F (direct marketing), a NPP (particularly NPPs 7 to 10) or an approved privacy code (APC), where that section, NPP or APC is applicable to the 
Consultant, unless:
In the case of section 16F - the use or disclosure is necessary, directly or indirectly, to discharge an obligation under this Agreement; or
In the case of a NPP or an APC - except where the activity or practice is engaged in for the purpose of discharging, directly or indirectly, an obligation under clause 3.13 of this Agreement, and the activity or practice is authorised by clause 3.13 of this Agreement, which is inconsistent with the NPP or APC.
To disclose in writing to any person who asks, the content of the provisions of this Agreement (if any) that is inconsistent
with a NPP or an APC binding a party to this Agreement;
To immediately notify the Principal if the Consultant becomes aware of a breach or possible breach of any of the obligations contained in this clause 3.13 whether by the Consultant or any sub-contractor;
To comply with any directions, guidelines, determinations or recommendations relating to the matters set out in the Schedule at Annexure 1 of this Agreement to the extent that they are not inconsistent with the requirements of this clause; and
To ensure that any employee of the Consultant who is required to deal with personal information for the purposes of this Agreement is made aware of the obligations of the Consultant set out in this clause 3.13.
The Consultant agrees to ensure that any sub-contract entered into for the purpose of fulfilling its obligations under this Agreement contains provisions to ensure that the sub-contractor has the same awareness and responsibilities as the Consultant has under this clause, including the requirement in relation to sub-contracts.
The Consultant agrees to indemnify the Principal in respect of any loss, liability or expense suffered or incurred by the Principal, which arises directly, or indirectly from a breach of any of the obligations of the Consultant under this clause 3.13, or a sub-contractor under the sub-contract provisions referred to in sub-clause 3.13(c).
In this clause 3.13, the terms 'agency', 'approved privacy code' (APC), 'Information Privacy Principles' (IPPs), and 'National Privacy Principles' (NPPs) have the same meaning as they have in section 6 of the Privacy Act.
The provisions of this clause 3.13 survive termination or expiration of this Agreement.
The Principal will as soon as practicable, or as required by this 	Agreement:
Make available to the Consultant all relevant instructions, information, documentation or data or any other material as required for the performance of the Services; and
Provide assistance to the Consultant as reasonably required so that 	the Consultant may competently perform its duties under this 	Agreement;

The Principal will as soon as practicable, or as required by this Agreement perform the services set out in  Item 3 of the Schedule..
The Principal will pay the Consultant the fees in accordance with  Item 4 of the Schedule subject to the conditions of this Agreement.
The Principal will only reimburse the Consultant any reasonable costs, expenses, fees or charges incurred by the Consultant where the Consultant has obtained the Principal's prior written approval to incur such costs, expenses, fees or charges.
At the times specified in the Schedule, the Consultant must lodge with the Principal an invoice (Tax Invoice if GST registered) claim for the Services performed (and for approved reimbursable expenses, if any, incurred) during that period.
The Principal will make a payment within 7 (seven) days following receipt of the invoice (Tax Invoice if GST registered)  

The Principal may request (in writing) the Consultant to vary the Services, provided the variation is within the general scope of the Services.
Fees for the varied Services will be as agreed in writing between the parties at the rate specified in Item 6 of the Schedule.
All rights in the Contract Material vests or will vest in the Principal.
Clause 8.1(a) does not affect the ownership of Intellectual Property in any Existing Material which is specified in Item 7 of the Schedule, but the Consultant grants to the Principal a permanent, irrevocable, royalty-free, world-wide, non-exclusive licence (including a right of sub-licence) to use, reproduce, adapt and exploit any such Existing Material in conjunction with the other Contract Material
If requested by the Principal, the Consultant agrees to bring into existence, sign, execute or otherwise deal with any document, which may be necessary or desirable to give effect to this clause 8.
The Consultant warrants that it is entitled, or will be entitled at the relevant time, to deal with the Intellectual Property in the Contract Material and the Existing Material in the manner provided for in this clause 8.
As soon as practicable after the expiration or earlier termination of this Agreement, the Consultant must deliver to the Principal all Contract Material and all the Principal's Materials.
Subject to Clause 3.6, Clause 8.2 (a) does not operate to prevent the Consultant from keeping a bona fide copy of the Contract Material for its own records.
Termination by the Principal other than for Default by the 	Consultant
The Principal may terminate the whole or any part of this Agreement or reduce the scope of the Services at any time, by written notice addressed to the Consultant.
Upon receipt of a notice of termination or reduction the Consultant 	agrees to:
Stop work as specified in the notice;
Take all available steps to minimise loss resulting from that 		termination and to protect the Principal's Material and 			Contract Material; and
Continue work on any part of the Services not affected by the 		notice.
Where there has been a termination under clause 9.1(a), the 	Principal will be liable only for:
Payments under clause 5 for services rendered before the 			effective date of termination; and
Reasonable costs incurred by the Consultant and directly 			attributable to the termination.
Where there has been a reduction in the scope of the Services, the Principal's liability to pay fees or meet costs under Clause 5 or provide Services under clause 4 will, unless there is agreement in writing to the contrary, abate in accordance with the reduction in the Services.
The Principal will not be liable to pay compensation under clause 9.1(c)(ii).
The Consultant will not be entitled to compensation for loss of 	prospective profits.
Becomes bankrupt, or insolvent, or enters into a scheme or 	arrangement with its creditors; or
Being a corporation, comes under one of the forms of external administration referred to in Chapter 5 of the Corporations Act 2001, or an order is made for the purpose of placing the corporation under external administration; or
Fails to satisfy any of its obligations under the Agreement the 	Principal may:
In the case of the default specified in Clause 9.2(a) and (b) forthwith terminate this Agreement by written notice addressed to the Consultant, and
In the case of any other default, terminate this Agreement by written notice addressed to the Consultant if the Consultant fails to remedy the default to the satisfaction of the Principal within 14 days from the date of service of a notice by the Principal on the Consultant specifying the relevant default.
If the Principal commits a substantial breach of this Agreement,
the Consultant may forthwith terminate this Agreement by written notice addressed to the Principal if the Principal fails to remedy the default within 14 days from the service of a notice by the Consultant specifying the relevant breach.
Termination of this Agreement by either party is without prejudice to any accrued rights or remedies of either party under this Agreement or otherwise at law or in equity.
Upon termination pursuant to Clause 9.2, the Consultant will not be entitled to receive or claim any compensation or payment in lieu of notice or damages for or in respect of or by reason of the termination but the Consultant will be entitled to receive and the Principal will pay to the Consultant upon receipt of an invoice (Tax Invoice if GST registered) the unpaid balance due to the Consultant under this Agreement at the date of termination.
Subject to Clause 10 (b) the Consultant agrees to indemnify the Principal from and against any:
Liability incurred by the Principal;
Loss of or damage to property of the Principal; or 
Loss or expense incurred by the Principal in dealing with any claim against it including legal costs and expenses on a solicitor/own client basis and the cost of time spent, resources used or disbursements paid by the Principal, arising from:
Any negligent or wilful act or omission by the Consultant, its officers, employees, agents or subcontractors in connection with this Agreement;
Any breach by the Consultant of its obligations or 			warranties under this Agreement;
Any improper use or improper disclosure by the Consultant, its officers, employees, agents or subcontractors of information held or controlled in connection with this Agreement; or
The use by the Principal of the Contract Material,
irrespective of whether there was fault on the part of the person whose conduct gave rise to that liability, loss or damage, or loss or expense.
The Consultant's liability to indemnify the Principal under clause 10(a) will be reduced proportionately to the extent that any negligent or wilful act or omission of the Principal contributed to the relevant liability, loss or damage, or loss or expense.
The right of the Principal to be indemnified under this clause 10 is in addition to, and not exclusive of, any other right, power or remedy provided by law, but the Principal is not entitled to be compensated in excess of the amount of the relevant liability, loss or damage, or loss or expense.
In this clause 10, "Principal" includes officers, employees and 	agents of the Principal.
This clause 10 will survive the expiration or termination of this 	Agreement.
The parties agree that any dispute arising during the course of this 	Agreement will be dealt with as follows:
First, the party claiming that there is a dispute will send to the 		other a notice setting out the nature of the dispute;
Secondly, the parties will try to resolve the dispute by direct negotiation, including by referring the matter to persons who may have authority to intervene and direct some form of resolution;
Thirdly, the parties have 10 business days from the sending of the notice to reach a resolution or to agree that the dispute will be submitted to mediation or some other form of alternative dispute resolution procedure; and
Lastly, if:
There is no resolution or agreement; or
There is a submission to mediation or some other form of alternative dispute resolution procedure, but there is no resolution within 15 business days of the submission, or such extended time as the parties may agree in writing before the expiration of the 15 business days,
Then, either party may commence legal proceedings.
Despite the existence of a dispute, the Consultant will (unless 		requested in writing not to do so) continue to perform the Services.
This clause 11 does not apply to:
Action by either party under or purportedly under clause 9.2, 	or
Action by the Principal under or purportedly under clause 5 or 	clause 9.1;
Nor does it preclude either party from commencing legal proceedings for urgent interlocutory relief.
The Consultant agrees that when using the Principal's premises or facilities for the purposes of the Consultancy Services, it will comply with all reasonable directions and procedures relating to occupational health, safety and security in operation at those premises or in regard to those facilities (including the Principal's smoke-free work-place policy) whether specifically drawn to the attention of the Consultant or as might reasonably be inferred from the circumstances.
Is reconstituted, renamed or replaced or if its powers or functions are transferred to another entity, then this Agreement is deemed to refer to that new entity; or
Ceases to exist, then this Agreement is deemed to refer to that entity 	which serves substantially the same purpose or object as the 	Principal.
This Agreement will be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws applicable to the State of New South Wales.
Any clause of this Agreement, which is invalid, may be severed from this Agreement without affecting the validity of the remaining provisions of this Agreement.
Any waiver by either party of a right under this Agreement will not amount to a waiver of a future right under this Agreement.
Any special conditions are set out in Item  8 of the Schedule, and are incorporated in this Agreement as if set out herein
The address of the parties for the purposes of giving any notice shall be set out in item 6 of the Schedule or as may from time to time be specified in writing between the parties.


The Client wishes to engage the University to provide the services and the University has agreed to perform the services.
This Agreement sets out the rights and obligations of each Party in relation to the services

This Agreement will begin on the Start Date and will continue for the Term set out in Item 2 of Schedule 1.
The University will perform the Services and provide the Deliverables by the date specified in Item 4 of Schedule 1.
The Services must be performed in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, including by the Specified Personnel, if any are specified.
Subject to clause 3.2, the University may sub-contract the performance of any part of the Services with the prior written consent of the Client, not be unreasonably withheld.
The Client shall make payments to the University for the Services as set out in Item 5 of Schedule 1.
Payments must be made within thirty (30) days of receipt by the Client of a valid invoice from the University for the amount owing, as specified in Item 5 of Schedule 1.
When receiving Confidential Information, the Receiving Party must:
keep all Confidential Information of the Disclosing Party confidential, unless strictly required otherwise by law;
limit access to those of its personnel reasonably requiring the Confidential Information on a strictly need to know basis;
not use any Confidential Information in any way other than for the Services or as otherwise contemplated by this Agreement without the prior written permission of the Disclosing Party; and
ensure that all personnel to whom Confidential Information is disclosed are legally bound under the terms and conditions of their employment agreements or otherwise, to keep the Confidential Information confidential and not to use the Confidential Information except in relation to the subject matter of this Agreement.
Confidential Information excludes, or as the case requires, ceases to include information, which is, or becomes:
available to the public at or after the date of its disclosure to the Receiving Party otherwise than through the default of the Receiving Party;
properly in the possession of the Receiving Party otherwise than by prior confidential disclosure from the Disclosing Party; 
demonstrated by the Receiving Party to be independently developed by an employee or agent of the Receiving Party having no knowledge of such information which is the subject of the disclosure.
At the termination or expiration of this Agreement and upon the written request of the Disclosing Party, the Receiving Party must return to the Disclosing Party any documents originating from the Disclosing Party which embody Confidential Information and must not keep any copies in any form.
Each Party
agrees that it will not have any claim, ownership or interest in the other Party's Background Intellectual Property or Improvements in such Background Intellectual Property;
grants the other Party a non-exclusive, royalty-free licence for the use of any Background Intellectual Property made available by the granting Party for the purpose of carrying out the Services; and
agrees that if Background Intellectual Property which has been made available pursuant to sub-clause (b) is required for the Commercialisation of the Services it must be made available on commercial terms to be negotiated in good faith by the Parties.
If the Parties cannot reach agreement on commercial terms, the matter must be dealt with in accordance with clause 11 [Dispute Resolution].
Subject to clause 6.3, the rights to all Deliverables, including the Intellectual Property created, discovered or coming into existence as a result of or arising out of the Deliverables shall be the property of and vested in the Client.
Ownership or other rights in the Deliverables will not pass to the Client if payment is not made in accordance with clause 4 of this Agreement.
The Client agrees that, subject to clause 5 of this Agreement, the University may use the Deliverables and all Intellectual Property created pursuant to this Agreement for its internal research and scholastic endeavours, but not for commercialisation.
The University agrees that it will obtain the Client's prior approval before submitting any manuscript or article relating to this Agreement for publication.
The University warrants that it will carry out the Services according to proper professional standards.
Except for the warranty in clause 8.1, the University does not make any warranties regarding the Services or the Deliverables.
All other warranties, including without limitation those of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose, or that the use of the Deliverables or any other materials created pursuant to this Agreement will not infringe any intellectual property rights of a third party, are excluded.
The Client uses the Deliverables at its own risk.
To the extent permitted by law, the University has no liability under this Agreement other than as set out in this clause 8.
Where liability cannot be excluded it is limited, at the University's option, to re-performing the Services or paying the Client the cost of having the services re-performed.
The cost to the University under this clause 8 shall not exceed the payment received by the University under this Agreement.
This Agreement may be terminated at any time with the consent of both Parties.
Either the Client or the University may terminate this Agreement:
if the other Party is in default of the terms and conditions of this Agreement and fails to remedy the default within twenty (20) Business Days after receiving Notice requiring the remedy of the default; or 
on giving ninety (90) days notice without cause.
Termination of this Agreement for whatever cause shall be without prejudice to any rights or obligations that have accrued or are owing prior to such termination, including but not limited to payments of money.
For the purposes of this clause 10, the value of taxable supply made by each Party under this Agreement is as follows:
unless expressly stated to the contrary, the consideration to be provided for any taxable supply made by one party to the other under this Agreement has been calculated without regard to, and is exclusive of, GST;
the consideration referred to in paragraph (a) shall be increased by the amount of any GST;
the Party receiving any payment for a taxable supply under this Agreement shall provide to the Party making a payment for a taxable supply a tax invoice in respect of that payment; and
the Party receiving any payment under this Agreement for a taxable supply shall do all things necessary (including, without limitation, registering with any required Government authority) to enable the party making a payment for a taxable supply to claim any credits or other benefits under the relevant law relating to GST.
A Party claiming that a dispute has arisen under this Agreement (Dispute) must notify the other Party giving written details of the Dispute.
The Parties agree to negotiate in good faith on a commercially realistic basis to resolve the Dispute and will refer resolution of the Dispute to officers within each Party who are authorised to hear the Dispute before commencing any legal proceedings in relation to the Dispute.
Any Dispute which cannot be settled under clause 11.1 within a reasonable time must be referred for determination by a person appointed for that purpose by the Parties and failing Agreement, appointed by the President of the Institute of Arbitrators and Mediators Australia (Victorian Division).
Any determination made under the above clause is binding on the Parties and the Commercial Arbitration Act 1984 (Vic) applies to the determination except to the extent otherwise agreed by the Parties.
Nothing in this clause 11 will prevent a Party from seeking interlocutory relief.
The Parties are independent contracting parties, and nothing in this Agreement shall make any Party the agent, partner or legal representative of the other Party for any purpose whatsoever, nor does it grant either Party any authority to assume or to create any obligation on behalf of or in the name of the other Party on any account whatsoever.
The laws that are applicable in Victoria, Australia govern this Agreement and each Party submits to the jurisdiction of the courts of that state and the courts of appeal therefrom.
Entire agreement.
This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement of the Parties with respect to its subject matter and supersedes all prior oral or written representations and agreements.
Amendment.
This Agreement may only be amended in writing signed by the parties.
Assignment.
A Party may not assign its rights or obligations arising under this Agreement without the prior written consent of the other Party.
Waiver.
A waiver by either Party of a breach of any provision of this Agreement does not constitute a waiver of any succeeding breach of the same or any other provision.
Severance.
If any provision or part provision of this Agreement is invalid or unenforceable, such provision shall be deemed deleted but only to the extent necessary and the remaining provisions of this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect.
Force Majeure.
The University will not be liable for the consequences of any delays or failure to carry out the Services or provide the Deliverables where such delay or failure is due to any event beyond the University's reasonable control, including without limitation, acts of God, fire, flood, accident, terrorism, strike and riot.
The last party to sign this Agreement must complete the date field on the first page


This Agreement will remain in effect for one of the two options below:
until the Services have been performed and the Deliverables have been provided to the Client by the date specified in Item 6 below; or 
for a period of INSERT THE NUMBER OF CALENDAR MONTHS calendar months commencing on and from the Start Date.
Date of delivery of Deliverables
The Deliverables will be provided by the University to the Client by the date(s) specified below:

Payment Schedule


Instalment No.
Date on which instalment is to be paid
Amount to be paid ($ AUD)

  
Total ($ AUD)
Inventory is not guaranteed by Stella and all inventory made available to Affiliate by Stella will be subject to availability.
Stella may make images, text and content available for use by Affiliates.
In relation thereto, Stella grants Affiliate a non-exclusive, revocable licence to use the images, text and content provided by Stella to Affiliate sole for the purpose of allowing the Affiliate to promote Stella properties on websites.
Affiliate may only use Stella images, text and content that Stella explicitly makes available to Affiliates as part of the Affiliate program.
Affiliate agrees not to use any other Stella Intellectual Property without the written permission of Stella.
In particular, Affiliate must not copy or use images, text and content from Stella websites or other third party websites.
In return for directing bookings to Stella sourced via the Affiliate's website, Affiliate will earn a commission from Stella.
Affiliate will not be entitled to a commission for cancellations or no-shows.
Commissions will be set by Stella in accordance with the Schedule 1 of this Affiliate Agreement or as made available on Stella's website.
Stella reserves the right to change the amount of commission paid to Affiliate at any time, on 14 days prior notice to Affiliate.
Commissions are earned by Affiliate once the booking has checked out and the booking is paid in full.
If all or part of a payment is refunded to the customer, the Affiliate must refund the commission paid on the refunded amount.
Stella will pay Affiliate all commissions on a monthly basis once the commission earned by Affiliate exceeds the commission payment threshold as specified by Stella from time to time.
Affiliate must provide Stella with its tax file number or Australian business number.
Stella will issue Affiliate with a recipient created tax invoice for all commissions paid by Stella to Affiliate, within 14 days of the end of each month for which the Affiliate has reached the commission payment threshold.
All commission rates under this Affiliate Agreement and specified in the Commission Schedule provided by Stella from time to time are inclusive of GST.
Stella will under no circumstances be liable for any damages arising in connection with a failure to pay commissions due to a technical fault on Stella's reservation system.
In the event that a commission is mistakenly not paid in these circumstances, Stella agrees to pay the Affiliate for the commission due within a reasonable time after becoming aware of the mistake.
The Affiliate's referral website must not contain out-of-date, incorrect or misleading images, text or content.
Affiliate acknowledges that Stella websites contain the most up-to-date information available for Stella properties, and Affiliate should link to Stella websites for property information, rather than reproducing the content on the Affiliate's referral website.
Affiliate undertakes to:
wherever requested by Stella, provide to Stella a list of all referral websites used by Affiliate to market Stella properties;
include on the referral website a logo or tag line stating the name of the Affiliate and that website is a web referral website.
The logo and tagline must be prominently displayed in such a way that there is no confusion that the referral website belongs to Affiliate and not to Stella;
only market Stella properties in connection with general referral websites such as general travel, accommodation or location specific websites and not on websites designed to market a specific Stella property;
ensure that the referral website complies with all laws and regulations in force and does not violate or infringe the rights of any third party;
ensure that the referral website conforms with any Stella use or style guides, if and as provided by Stella from time to time;
use its own website templates for the referral website; and
be solely responsible for the development, operation and maintenance of the referral website, as well as any material contained on such website.
Affiliate will be solely responsible for the technical operation of Affiliate's systems as well as the accuracy and appropriateness of communications with customers.
During the term of this Affiliate Agreement and after termination, Affiliate must not do any of the following:
copy the look and feel of any Stella website;
in any way represent or create the impression that the referral website is an official Stella website or is a website sponsored or controlled by Stella;
use any language which may mislead a user to believe that they are:
dealing directly with Stella (e.g.
referring to a Stella property as "our apartments");
dealing with a central reservation service for a Stella property; or
dealing with the official booking agent for a Stella property.
engage in conduct that is illegal, misleading or deceptive;
register or use domain names or sub-domain names which contain, or which are deceptively similar to, Stella trade marks or property names;
include on the referral website information which (or have a direct link to sites that contain information which) might be in any way detrimental to Stella's brands, image or reputation;
use Stella trade marks and logos other than those expressly approved for the Affiliate's use by Stella;
illegally copy or reproduce Stella content including photographs, logos and written details of Stella properties other than those expressly approved for the Affiliate's use by Stella;
enter into any sub-affiliate or junior affiliate arrangements in relation to Stella properties without the prior written consent of Stella;
operate call centres to take bookings for Stella properties;
purchase or use any search engine keywords or metatags that include Stella property names or trade marks, or anything deceptively similar thereto;
place misleading content on blogs or opinion websites, or use blogs for the purpose of driving traffic to Affiliate's website;
create websites that have multiple pages about a single Stella property, without Stella's prior consent; or 
use any predatory advertising methods in the promotion of Stella properties.
Predatory includes any method that creates or overlays links or banners on web sites, spawns browser windows, or any other method invented to improperly generate traffic.
Should Affiliate undertake any of the prohibited activities listed in clause 21 above, Stella reserves the right to suspend commission payment to Affiliate, and may terminate this Affiliate Agreement immediately upon notice to Affiliate.
Subject to clauses 8 and 24, Stella will provide Affiliate with the ability to access and market a range of Stella inventory as made available by Stella from time to time, as an affiliate of Stella.
This may include BreakFree, Mantra, Peppers and any additional brand room inventory as made available on the Stella Central Reservations system from time to time as well as other properties or property group which are owned, managed or controlled by Stella.
Stella may vary the following at any time, at its complete discretion:
the properties and room types which are available to be marketed by Affiliate; 
the availability periods for certain properties and room types; and
room rates.
Stella does not have an obligation to notify Affiliate of any variations made in accordance with clause 24, and such changes shall be effective immediately upon being updated in the Stella computer system.
Stella will provide a suitable working Affiliate program website with access to real time reports online.
Stella will provide support as determined by Stella.
Stella may modify the terms of this Affiliate Agreement, by providing Affiliate with 30 days notice.
This Affiliate Agreement commences when: 
signed by both parties; or 
when Affiliate accepts this agreement by clicking "I agree" in relation hereto or placing its electronic signature at the bottom of the registration form,
and continues indefinitely unless terminated by either party by providing 14 days written notice to the other party.
Following termination, Affiliate:
must cease using all Stella Intellectual Property; and
must, within 24 hours of termination, remove any Stella links or Stella Intellectual Property from the referral website.
If this Affiliate Agreement is terminated by Stella without cause, Stella will pay to Affiliate any commission earned by Affiliate prior to termination, unless the amount of commission is less than the commission payment threshold, in which case the amount owing will be forfeited.
If this Affiliate Agreement is terminated by Stella for breach, or if Affiliate terminates this Affiliate Agreement without cause, Stella will not pay any further commissions earned by Affiliate.
The rights and obligations of the parties under clauses 21, 30, 31, 32, 34 and 36 survive termination or expiration of this Affiliate Agreement.
Affiliate shall at all times indemnify and hold harmless Stella and its officers, employees and agents from any and all costs, losses, damages, liabilities, judgments and expenses (including legal costs and expenses on a full indemnity basis) or liability reasonably incurred or suffered by any of those indemnified in each case arising out of or relating to:
the development, operation, maintenance and contents of the referral website;
a breach by Affiliate of its obligations under this Affiliate Agreement; and
any wilful, unlawful or negligent act or omission of Affiliate.
Where Stella is required or permitted to give Affiliate information (eg a notice) under this Affiliate Agreement, Stella may do so in any way, including by:
giving Affiliate the information by telephone, facsimile, mail or email using the contact details provided by the Affiliate to Stella; or
making the information available on Stella's website.
The terms of this Affiliate Agreement are confidential and must not be disclosed by Affiliate to any other person.
Stella may assign its rights and obligations under this Affiliate Agreement to a related body corporate of Stella as that term is defined in the Corporations Act 2001 (Cwlth).
Stella may permit a related body corporate to carry out obligations of Stella herein.
Affiliate may not assign this Affiliate Agreement to any third party without Stella's prior consent.
If control, ownership or management of Affiliate changes significantly, Stella may terminate this Affiliate Agreement by giving notice to Affiliate, such notice being effective immediately.
This Affiliate Agreement constitutes the entire agreement of the parties and supersedes all previous agreements, negotiations, representations and warranties (whether written or oral) and understandings between the parties.
This Affiliate Agreement may consist of a number of copies, each signed by one or more parties to this Affiliate Agreement.
If so, the signed copies are treated as making up the one document.
Each party acknowledges that in entering into this Affiliate Agreement it has not relied on any representations or warranties about its subject matter except as expressly provided for in the written terms of this Affiliate Agreement.
If any provision of this Affiliate Agreement is held invalid, illegal or unenforceable in a jurisdiction it is severed for that jurisdiction.
The remainder of this Affiliate Agreement has full force and effect and the validity or enforceability of that provision in any other jurisdiction is not affected.
Each party agrees, at its own expense, to do anything the other party reasonably asks (such as obtaining consents, signing and producing documents and getting documents completed and signed) in order to effectuate the purposes or terms of this Affiliate Agreement.
This Affiliate Agreement is governed by the law in force in the State of Queensland, Australia.
Each party submits to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of the courts of Queensland.

The Vendor appoints the Broker as his agent to sell the Boat for the GROSS sum of $        , less costs outlined in Clause 4, in cleared funds by cash or bank cheque or telegraphic transfer less bank charges with delivery and possession of the                                                      Boat at      .
The Vendor may agree to accept a different sum and accept different terms confirmed in writing or by email.
The Vendor appoints the Broker -  (Place cross in one box only)
act as the Vendor's exclusive agent for the sale of the Boat for 3 months from the date of this agreement.
At the end of which period the Broker is the Vendor's non-exclusive agent.
Any sale effected by the Vendor within the period of this agreement to any Purchaser introduced by the Vendor of the Boat, then any such sale shall be deemed to be a sale effected by the Broker, then the Vendor shall pay to the Broker at 50% of the fee that the Broker would have received had the Broker effected the sale.
Any sale effected by the Vendor within a period of three months after the expiration of this agreement to any Purchaser introduced by the Broker to the Vendor or Boat, then any such sale shall be deemed to be a sale effected by the Broker, and the provisions of Clause 4 hereof shall apply and the Vendor shall pay to the Broker a fee as identical to the fee that the Broker would have received had the Broker effected the sale;
OR
As the Vendor's sole agent for the sale of the Boat for 3 months from the date of this agreement with the Vendor reserving the right to sell the Boat directly to a buyer not introduced by the Broker at the end of which period the Broker is the Vendor's non-exclusive agent;
OR
As the Vendor's non-exclusive agent for the sale of the Boat.
The Vendor warrants that, except for any rights of a person or corporation disclosed in this clause,
the Boat is free from all encumbrance and other interests;
the Boat is wholly owned by the Vendor;
the Vendor has complete unfettered power to sell the Boat; 
upon payment of the sale price in full the Vendor will provide a discharge from the person or        corporation having rights over the Boat as disclosed in this clause;
the Boat shall be insured by the Owner while the Boat is for sale;
the Vendor shall keep the Broker safe and indemnified against all claims made against him by any persons both now and in the future from any liability that may arise from any claim or claims whatsoever;
the Vendor must inform the broker when the Boat is not available;
that the broker is not responsible for mechanical, structural, or any component failure of the Boat while it is under the Broker's control;
that the Boat is registered with the appropriate authorities and has a Boat Code;
to pay the brokerage commissions, costs and disbursements as outlined in Clause;
Name and address of other person or corporation having rights over the Boat and description of those rights
     
The Vendor grants the Broker, its servants or agents permission to:
Board the Boat for purposes of inspection, agreed maintenance, cleaning, or any such works as agreed by Vendor.
demonstrate the Boat by appointment to any inquiring purchaser, and in this regard the owner shall make available to the Broker the Boat on demand.
Operate the engine(s), electronics and gear for demonstration purposes.
Motor or sail the Boat for demonstration purposes.
Take such other reasonable steps in relation to the Boat as may in the Broker's opinion be necessary to further the prospective sale of the Boat.
Advertise and promote the sale of the Boat and at all times utilise best efforts to effect the sale of the Boat.
All advertisements will mention PowerSail Marine.
The Broker is not liable for any damage or mechanical or other failure to the Boat which occurs or becomes apparent while the Boat is under the Broker's control, nor for the care of or custody of the Boat.
The Vendor must pay the broker commission, plus costs outlined in Clause 4.2 below, on the sale price.
Forthwith on the completion of the sale to a Purchaser introduced by the Broker.
OR
If the Vendor sells the Boat during the exclusive period;
OR
Forthwith upon the Broker procuring a Contract for sale of the Boat which is not completed and where the deposit paid under the Contract is forfeited to the Vendor.
The Broker may deduct and retain agreed and unpaid costs as shown below from the sale proceeds or deposit.
Vendor agrees to pay costs below, in advance, as required.
Mooring/Berthing $     /mth	Initial	
Advertising (except website & BoatPoint) $ Initial
 $ Initial          $      	Initial
                   			                          $      	Initial
				                          $      	Initial
Cleaning                                                                $      	Initial             
                                                                              $      	Initial
                                                                              $      	Initial
                                                                              $      	Initial
Repairs & Maintenance                                         $      	Initial
                                                                              $      	Initial
                                                                              $      	Initial
 REVS, etc                                                             $      	Initial
Other                                                                     $      	Initial
                                                                              $      	Initial
                                                                              $      	Initial

The Broker may deduct and retain the commission and costs from the sale proceeds or deposit.
The Vendor must pay to the Broker Commission at      % of the final Contract price of the Boat plus GST.
The Vendor declares that the particulars given in this agreement are to the best of his knowledge correct and that all items listed in the Details of Boat are included in the sale of the Boat.
The Vendor agrees to slip the Boat for inspection, clean the hull and return the Boat to the water and to conduct sea trials once a contract of sale is negotiated and a deposit is held (normally 10% of the sale price) by the Broker.
The cost of slipping the Boat and of the inspection is to be met by the Purchaser and the cost of the sea trials by the Vendor unless otherwise agreed.
Is the Vendor aware of any problems such as Osmosis, Structural or Mechanical that may be revealed during a survey;
The laws of the state govern this Agreement.
Any proceeding under it may be commenced in an appropriate Court in the State and each party unconditionally submits to the jurisdiction of that Court.
The Vendor may only terminate this agency by giving the Broker one (1) month's written notice.
Notice may not be given to expire during any sole or exclusive agency period.  

Where an obligation is imposed on a party under this Escrow Agreement, that obligation shall include an obligation to ensure that no act, error or omission on the part of that party's employees, agents or sub-contractors or their employees or agents occurs which will prevent the discharge of that party's obligation.
The Contractor shall deliver to, and deposit with, the Escrow Agent one copy of the Source Code and the Supporting Material within seven (7) days of the date of this Escrow Agreement.
The Contractor shall maintain, amend, modify, up-date and enhance the Source Code and Supporting Material at all times and shall ensure that the Source Code and Supporting Material deposited with the Escrow Agent is kept fully up-to-date and accurately reflects the Licensed Software including all Modifications, Amendments, Updates and New Releases made to, or in respect of, the Licensed Software.
The Contractor warrants to the Customer that the Source Code is, to the best of the knowledge of the Contractor, free from any Virus or program device which would prevent the Licensed Software from performing its desired function or which would prevent or impede a thorough and effective verification thereof.
The Escrow Agent shall accept custody of the Source Code and Supporting Material on the date of delivery in accordance with sub-clause 4.1 of this Escrow Agreement and, subject to the terms and conditions of this Escrow Agreement, shall hold the Source Code and Supporting Material on behalf of the Customer and the Contractor.
The Escrow Agent shall take all necessary steps to ensure the preservation, care, maintenance, safe custody and security of the Source Code and Supporting Material while it is in the possession, custody or control of the Escrow Agent, including storage in a secure receptacle and in an atmosphere which does not harm the Source Code and the Supporting Material.
If the Source Code and/or Supporting Material is lost, stolen, destroyed or damaged while it is in the possession, custody or control of the Escrow Agent, the Escrow Agent shall immediately notify the Customer and the Contractor.
Unless the Escrow Agreement is terminated in accordance with clause 9.2(b), the Contractor shall, upon receipt of a notice from the Escrow Agent under clause 5.3, promptly deposit a replacement copy of the Source Code and/or Supporting Material with the Escrow Agent.
Upon receipt of the replacement copy of the Source Code and/or Supporting Material, the Escrow Agent shall promptly advise the Customer and Contractor in writing of its receipt of the replacement copy of the Source Code and/or Supporting Material.
Without limitation to any other rights the Contractor and/or the Customer may have under this Escrow Agreement or at law, where the loss, damage or destruction of the Source Code and/or Supporting Material is caused by the negligent, wilful or unlawful act or omission of the Escrow Agent, the Escrow Agent must, at its own expense, reimburse the Contractor for the reasonable cost of replacing the Source Code and/or Supporting Material.
The Escrow Agent is not obliged to determine the nature, completeness or accuracy of the Source Code lodged with it.
The Customer shall pay the Escrow Fee within 30 days of receipt of a correctly rendered tax invoice from the Escrow Agent.
All expenses and disbursements incurred by the Escrow Agent in connection with this Escrow Agreement shall be borne wholly and completely by the Escrow Agent.
All expenses and disbursements incurred by the Contractor in connection with this Escrow Agreement shall be borne wholly and completely by the Contractor.
The Customer may, in the presence of and under the supervision of the Contractor, analyse and conduct tests in relation to the Source Code and Supporting Material for verification purposes.
The Customer may engage an independent assessor to undertake analysis and tests of the Source Code and Supporting Material for verification purposes, on its behalf.
The Escrow Agent shall release the Source Code and Supporting Material to the independent party upon presentation of a Release form signed by the Customer and the Contractor specifying the material to be released and identifying the person to whom that material may be released.
The Escrow Agent shall not release, or allow access to, the Source Code and Supporting Material except in accordance with the provisions of this Escrow Agreement.
The Escrow Agent shall release the Source Code and Supporting Material to the Customer upon written notice from the Customer that:
the Contractor has become subject to any form of insolvency administration;
the Contractor has ceased for any reason to maintain or support the Licensed Software;
the Customer Contract has been terminated by the Customer for breach of the Escrow Agreement by the Contractor; or
this Escrow Agreement is terminated (other than in accordance with Clause 9.4) and a new Escrow Agreement is not entered into within thirty (30) days in accordance with clause 9.3.
Where the Customer Contract has been terminated by the Contractor or where the Customer has agreed to the release the Escrow Agent shall, upon written request from the Contractor, release the Source Code and Supporting Material to the Contractor.
The Escrow Agent is not obliged to verify or otherwise test the validity of any notice received, or its contents.
The Escrow Agent may, by giving three (3) months prior written notice to the Customer and the Contractor, terminate this Escrow Agreement subject to the pro-rata refund of any advance payment of the Escrow Fee.
The Customer and the Contractor may jointly terminate this Escrow Agreement immediately if the Escrow Agent:
has become subject to any form of insolvency administration; or
is in breach of any obligation under this Escrow Agreement so that there is a substantial failure by the Escrow Agent to perform or observe this Escrow Agreement.
If this Escrow Agreement is terminated in accordance with this clause while the Customer Contract remains in force, the Customer and the Contractor shall enter into a new Escrow Agreement on the same terms and conditions as are set out in this Escrow Agreement, with an alternative escrow agent who is acceptable to both the Customer and the Contractor.
The Customer and the Contractor may, upon giving 30 days prior written notice to the Escrow Agent, jointly terminate this Escrow Agreement, however no refund of advance payment of the Escrow Fee will be payable.
The Escrow Agent shall not, except as permitted by this Escrow Agreement, make public or disclose to any person any information about this Escrow Agreement or the Source Code.
The Escrow Agent shall not reproduce, or cause to have reproduced, a copy of the Source Code or any part thereof.
The obligations under this clause shall survive the termination of this Escrow Agreement.
The Escrow Agent shall in carrying out this Escrow Agreement comply with the provisions of any relevant statutes, regulations, by-laws and the requirements of any Commonwealth, State or local authority.
Any party under this Escrow Agreement may notify in writing a dispute in respect of a matter arising under this Escrow Agreement.
The Parties shall within 7 days of such notice consult to agree a method for resolving the dispute by way of:
negotiation;
alternative dispute resolution procedures; or
arbitration;
shall commence procedures for dispute resolution within a reasonable time of agreeing a method.
This Escrow Agreement shall not be varied either in law or in equity except by agreement in writing signed by the Escrow Agent, the Customer and the Contractor.
A waiver by one party of a breach of a provision of this Escrow Agreement by another Party shall not constitute a waiver in respect of any other breach or of any subsequent breach of this Escrow Agreement.
The failure of a Party to enforce a provision of this Escrow Agreement shall not be interpreted as a waiver of that provision.
The Contractor and the Escrow Agent, or either of these, shall not assign, in whole or in part, or novate this Escrow Agreement without first obtaining the prior written consent of the Customer.
A notice or other communication which may be given to or served on either party under this Escrow Agreement is deemed to have been duly given or served if it is in writing, signed by the Party giving the notice ("the first Party") and is either delivered by hand, posted, sent via facsimile or a copy transmitted via electronic mail or other electronic means to the other Party at the address set out below or such other address as is notified in writing to the first party from time to time.
If delivery or receipt of a notice or communication occurs on a day other than a Business Day or is later than four (4.00) pm (Customer local time) it will be taken to have duly occurred at nine (9.00) am (Customer local time) on the next Business Day.
Where the notice is given or served electronically, the sending party must confirm receipt by some other means.
The address for services of notice for a party is, in the case of the:
This includes controlled retention of deposits and maintenance of audit records and documentary evidentiary support of deposit movements, processing and certification of up to 4 deposits per annum.
Deposits in excess of 4 per annum shall be charged at the Additional Charges rate set out below.
This includes one unit of Escrow Storage (where 1 unit = 1/2 cubic foot).
Additional units of Escrow Storage shall be charged at the Additional Charge rates set out below.
The Annual deposit fee is based on a 3 party agreement, where one of the parties is the Escrow Agent.
Additional parties to the Escrow Agreement shall be charged at the Additional Charge rates set out below.
The University hereby grants to the Licensee a non-transferable and non-exclusive licence to copy and use the Licensed Product described in Schedule 1 under the terms and conditions contained in this Agreement.
The Licensee shall have the right to use the Licensed Product on any computer listed in Schedule 2.
The Licensee may copy the Licensed Product only for the purpose of using the program on the computer(s) listed in Schedule 2 or for archive purposes.
Any part of the Licensed Product included in a modified work shall remain subject to all terms and conditions of this Agreement.
The Licensee may copy the supplied documentation for internal purposes only.
The Licensee shall have the right to use the Licensed Product for testing, personal and demonstration applications only unless additional uses are specifically listed in Schedule 3.
Use of the Licensed Product in a production environment, including but not limited to: institutional web pages; public displays; applications accessible beyond the licensed location, institution or work group; subscription services or commercial applications; is specifically excluded unless listed in Schedule 3 or subsequently authorised by the University.
In the event of the Licensee selling or disposing of the licensed computer(s), the Licensee must delete all copies of the Licence Product from those computers and, the University will have the right to terminate the Licensing Agreement for those computer(s).
Where the Licensee replaces an existing licensed computer with another computer, then the licence may be transferred free of cost provided the replacement computer(s) continue to fulfil the same role within the organisation.
If the replacement computer(s) fulfil a different role, including but not limited to serving an increased number of users or becoming more widely accessible through an Intranet or on the Internet, the Licensee shall advise the University in writing of the change.
The Licensee shall pay to the University the Licence Fee stipulated in Schedule 4 and in addition the Licensee shall meet all applicable taxes thereon including GST, such payment being solely for the right to use the Licensed Product pursuant to these terms and conditions and does not constitute the purchase of the Licensed Product, nor the grant of any other right or title to the Licensed Product.
Payment of the annual maintenance fee specified in Schedule 4 shall entitle the Licensee to 	download updates of the Licensed Product (including any new features developed) from the 	TimeMap web site, for a period of 1 year from the due date specified in Schedule 4.
Any Licence fee payable under this Agreement shall be paid either by cheque written out to "The 	University of Sydney ", by credit card authorisation, or electronic transfer directed 	into the 	University's nominated bank 	account, quoting "BLO Ref.
No.
1127 - TimeMap".
This Agreement shall remain in force until the Licensee discontinues the use of the software or until terminated in accordance with Clause 7.
The Licensee agrees to reproduce and include the University's copyright notice on all copies of the Licensed Product produced under Clause 1.2 above, or any modification thereof in any form, and the Licensee hereby unreservedly assigns all Intellectual Property rights to the University in any such modifications.
Upon termination of the licence herein granted, the Licensee shall certify to the University in writing that all copies of the Licensed Product in whatever form in its possession or under its control have been destroyed and the Licensee hereby authorises the University to attend premises where same were kept and to verify such destruction.
On termination the Licensee shall warrant in writing that it is not in breach of this clause.
Any right to damages shall not be prejudiced by termination.
The Licensee agrees not to disclose, provide or otherwise make available the Licensed Product or any portion thereof in any form whatsoever to any person other than the University or other Licensed Product licence holders, without written approval of the University.
The Licensee will take all reasonable steps necessary to ensure that no unauthorised copies or uses are made of the Licensed Product.
The Licensee agrees to advise the University immediately it discovers any unauthorised copies or uses of the Licensed Product.
Title to and ownership of the Licensed Product including all Intellectual Property rights shall at all times remain with the University.
The University will not be responsible for the correcting of any bugs or deficiencies found by the Licensee.
However, the University may, at its own discretion, provide to the Licensee updated copies of the software for download from the TimeMap web site (http://www.timemap.net).Such updated copies of the software shall be restricted to fixes of bugs or deficiencies in the software.
Major new releases of the software are not covered by this clause and may at the University's option be marketed as new products except as provided by clause 3.2.
The decision as to what constitutes a correction of a bug or deficiency as opposed to increased functionality shall be the sole judgement of the University.
The Licensed Product is being supplied by the University at the request of the Licensee.
It is acknowledged and agreed by the parties that:
the University does not have any detailed knowledge or understanding of the Licensee's needs, obligations and business;
no warranty or undertaking is made by the University that the Licensed Product will be suitable for or assist the Licensee in its operations or be compatible with the Licensee's equipment;
to the extent permitted by any Federal or State Laws, all warranties including any express or implied warranties of merchantability or of fitness for a particular purpose are hereby excluded.
The University shall not be liable in contract, tort or otherwise to the Licensee for any special, indirect, consequential or other damages in any way resulting from or arising out of the use of the Licensed Product.
in the event that any conditions or warranties implied by the Trade Practices Act, 1974 (as amended) (hereinafter referred to as "the Act") apply to the use of the Licensed Product by the Licensee, the liability of the University for breach of any such conditions or warranties (other than a condition or warranty implied by section 69 of the Act) shall be limited to:
in the case of goods, either:
the replacement of the goods or the supply of equivalent goods; or
the repair of the goods;

whichever the University in its absolute discretion shall think fit; and
in the case of services, the supplying of the services again.
It is further acknowledged that the University is not and shall not be required to provide any back up, support or further information to the Licensee, unless specifically negotiated over and above the provision of the Agreement.
In the event the Licensee neglects or fails to perform or observe any of its obligations under this Agreement, the licence granted hereunder to the Licensee shall immediately terminate.
This Agreement, the licence granted hereunder and the Licensed Product may not be assigned, sub-licensed or otherwise transferred by the Licensee without prior written consent of the University.
The University shall have the right to appoint a nominee to inspect the books and records of the Licensee to determine any unauthorised transfer.
This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of New South Wales and all applicable laws of the Commonwealth of Australia.
The parties agree to submit to the jurisdiction of the Courts of New South Wales.
Any dispute or controversy arising out of or in relation to this Agreement shall be referred to the Australian Commercial Disputes Centre.
Should any provision of this Agreement be held by a Court to be unlawful, invalid, unenforceable or in conflict with any rule of law, statute, ordinance or regulation, the validity and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not be thereby affected.
The Licensee agrees to acknowledge use of the Licensed Product through a copyright notice and hyperlink to the TimeMap web site (http://www.timemap.net) displayed within the applet space or in the embedding web page adjacent to the applet, following the guidelines published on the TimeMap web site, and in any published materials describing applications developed with the Licensed product.
If more than one person is at any time included in this Agreement as the Artist then each such person shall be both jointly and severally liable for the performance and observance of all the provisions of this Agreement to be performed or observed by the Artist.
In consideration of the Contract Fee, the Artist agrees to submit a Concept Design in accordance with the Artist's Brief and the terms of this Agreement.
The Concept Design must be submitted to the Commissioning Party by the date specified in Item 5 of the Schedule or on such other date as the Parties shall mutually agree ("the Submission Date").
The Concept Design submitted by the Artist must in all respects comply and conform with the requirements set out and described in the Artist's Brief.
the Artist will apply its aesthetic skill and judgment and use materials of an appropriate character and quality to create the Concept Design;
the Concept Design submitted by the Artist must in all respects comply and conform with the requirements particularly set out and described in the Artist's Brief;
the Artist may incorporate elements derived from Indigenous heritage into their Concept Design only with the prior informed consent of the relevant Indigenous custodians/owners.
The Commissioning Party shall within 14 days after the Submission Date pay the Artist the Contract Fee set out at Item 4 of the First Schedule.
The Contract Fee will be paid according to the manner of payment outlined in Item 4 of the First Schedule.
No Contract Fee shall be paid by the Commissioning Party to the Artist pursuant to Clause 4.1 if:
the Artist fails to submit the Concept Design to the Commissioning Party on or before the Submission Date;
the Concept Design submitted does not relate to or comply with the requirements set out in the Artist's Brief;
the Concept Design submitted by the Artist has not been prepared in accordance with, or meet the standards required by Clause 3.1 herein.
The Commissioning Party must within 28 days of the Submission Date notify the Artist in writing as to the approval or otherwise of the Concept Design.
If the Artist's Concept Design is approved by the Commissioning Party pursuant to Clause 5 above, the Artist agrees to submit to the Commissioning Party a Developed Concept Design in accordance with the Artist's Brief and any instructions of the Commissioning Party.
The Developed Concept Design must be submitted to the Commissioning Party by the date specified in Item 6 of the First Schedule, or such other date as may be mutually agreed in writing ("Submission Date for the Developed Concept Design").
the Artist will apply its aesthetic skill and judgment and use materials of an appropriate character and quality to create the Developed Concept Design;
the Developed Concept Design submitted by the Artist must in all respects comply and conform with the Artist's Brief and any further instructions given to the Artist by the Commissioning Party.
In consideration for the Artist developing and amending the Concept Design, the Commissioning Party shall pay the Artist an extra design commission fee to be negotiated between the Parties and to be paid in the following instalments:
one half within 14 days of written approval of the Artist's Concept Design; and 
one half within 14 days of the Submission Date for the Developed Concept Design.
No extra design commission fee shall be paid by the Commissioning Party to the Artist pursuant to Clause 7.1 in the following circumstances:
where the Artist fails to submit the Developed Concept Design to the Commissioning Party on or before the Submission Date;
where the Developed Concept Design submitted does not comply with the requirements set out in the Artist's Brief or the instructions of the Commissioning Party;
where the Developed Concept Design submitted by the Artist has not been prepared in accordance with, or meet the standards required by Clause 6.3 herein.
The Commissioning Party must within 28 days of the Submission Date for the Developed Concept Design (or such other time as may be mutually agreed between the Parties) notify the Artist in writing as to the approval or otherwise of the Developed Concept Design.
The Artist shall not subcontract or sublet any part of the services under this Agreement without the prior written approval of the Commissioning Party which approval may be given or withheld in the absolute discretion of the Commissioning Party.
Any approval given to the Artist by the Commissioning Party to engage a subcontractor shall not relieve the Artist from any of its contractual obligations.
The Artist shall be responsible to the Commissioning Party for the work or services of the subcontractor or any employee or agent of the subcontractor.
The Artist shall ensure that each subcontractor shall provide and maintain insurance cover of no less a standard than required by the Artist under this Agreement.
The Commissioning Party may appoint a Contract Representative who shall be nominated in Item 3 of the First Schedule to act as a point of contact and to exercise the duties, discretions and powers vested in the Commissioning Party under this Agreement.
The appointment of a Commissioning Party's Contract Representative shall not prevent the exercise of any duty, discretion or power by the Commissioning Party.
The Commissioning Party may by written notice to the Artist, at any time, revoke the appointment and substitute another as its Contract Representative.
The Artist may appoint a Contract Representative (or equivalent or delegate) who shall be nominated in Item 3 of the First Schedule to fulfil the role of the Artist's Contract Representative to act as a point of contact and to exercise the duties, discretions and powers vested in the Artist under this Agreement.
The Artist may, with the prior written approval of the Commissioning Party, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld, revoke this appointment and shall substitute another Contract Representative.
All amounts payable pursuant to this Agreement are expressed to be exclusive of, but subject to, GST.
The Parties acknowledge that where GST is to be applied to any payment under this Agreement the amount payable shall be increased by multiplying the GST exclusive amount by the then applicable rate of GST.
The Parties agree that all Intellectual Property rights in the Concept Design and the Developed Concept Design belong to and remain with the Artist.
Upon payment of the relevant Contract Fee in full, title to the Concept Design and the Developed Concept Design shall vest in the Commissioning Party.
Concept Designs that do not receive the approval of the Commissioning Party within 28 days of their submission shall be returned to the Artist.
Notwithstanding Clause 12.1, the Artist grants permission to the Commissioning Party to use the Concept Design and the Developed Concept Design for the purposes and in the manner set out in Item 7 of the Schedule.
The Commissioning Party acknowledges that use, reproduction or communication of the Concept Design and/or the Developed Concept Design for any purpose other than those set out in Item 7 of the Schedule requires the prior written consent of the Artist and may be the subject of further fees and/or royalty payments on terms to be separately negotiated.
The Parties acknowledge that all Moral Rights of those entitled at law to assert them are preserved.
the Artist is the sole legal and beneficial owner of and has full right and title to copyright subsisting in the Concept Design and/or the Developed Concept Design;
the Concept Design and/or the Developed Concept Design is not copied wholly or substantially from any other party's work or material;
the Artist has not entered into any agreements or arrangements involving the sale, mortgage, pledge, granting of options or any other rights over the Artist's rights, title and interest subsisting in the Concept Design and the Developed Concept Design;
neither the execution of this Agreement nor the performance by the Artist of its obligations under this Agreement will cause the Artist to be in breach of any agreement to which it is party or is subject.
The Artist will indemnify and at all times keep the Commissioning Party fully indemnified against all claims, actions, proceedings, costs and damages whatsoever made against or incurred by the Commissioning Party in consequence of any breach of the warranties contained herein in Sub-clause 1.
The Commissioning Party may terminate this Agreement at any time and for whatever reason upon giving written notice to the Artist.
Upon such termination any Contract Fee paid or payable to the Artist shall be adjusted either by additional payment or refund by either Party according to the amount of artistic work done by the Artist in pursuance of this Agreement up to the date of receiving such notice.
The Artist may terminate this Agreement for any reason prior to the Submission Date for the Concept Design or the Developed Concept Design by notice in writing to the Commissioning Party.
If the Artist terminates this Agreement pursuant to Clause 14.2.1 then no Contract Fee shall be payable by the Commissioning Party and the Commissioning Party may recover any Contract Fee already paid to the Artist.
Subject to Clause 16, either Party may terminate this Agreement immediately on written notice to the other, while preserving to itself any rights which may have accrued to it, where the other Party:
commits a material breach of this Agreement which is not capable of being remedied; or
fails to remedy a breach capable of being remedied within a period stated by notice in writing (which period must be reasonable in the circumstances).
This Agreement will terminate automatically on the death or incapacity of the Artist in which case:
the Artist or his/her estate shall retain all payment made and owed to the Artist;
the Commissioning Party agrees to pay the Artist or the Artist's representative (as the case may be) that portion of the unpaid portion of the Contract Fee for the unfinished Concept Design or the Developed Concept Design that is in the Commissioning Party's reasonable opinion reflective of the degree of completeness of the design work when compared with the requirements of the Artist's Brief and the Commissioning Party's instructions; 
the Commissioning Party shall have the right to keep copies of the Concept Design and the Developed Concept Design for the sole purpose of completing the Work; and
the Work will be completed by an artist acceptable to both the Artist or the Artist's estate, and to the Commissioning Party.
If the Commissioning Party does not wish to have the Work completed all copies of the Concept Design and the Developed Concept Design will become the property of the Artist or the Artist's estate.
The Parties agree that any dispute arising during the course of this Agreement will be dealt with as follows:
the Party claiming that there is a dispute will send to the other a notice setting out the nature of the dispute;
the Parties will try to resolve the dispute by direct negotiation, including by referring the matter to persons who may have authority to intervene and direct some form of resolution;
the Parties have 10 business days from the sending of the notice to reach a resolution or to agree that the dispute will be submitted to mediation or some other form of alternative dispute resolution procedure; and

Despite the existence of a dispute, the Artist will (unless requested in writing not to do so) continue to perform its obligations under this Agreement.
This clause does not preclude either Party from commencing legal proceedings for urgent interlocutory or other relief.
The Parties agree that liquidated damages for failure to submit the Concept Design and/or the Developed Concept Design by the relevant submission date will entitle the Commissioning Party to liquidated damages in the sum specified in Item 8 of the First Schedule.
The Parties acknowledge that this is a reasonable and genuine pre-estimate of the actual loss incurred by the Commissioning Party as a result of the breach.
Each Party shall respect the confidentiality of the other Party's Confidential Information and neither Party shall, without the other Party's written consent, disclose or divulge the other Party's Confidential Information.
The duty of confidence referred to in this Clause 18 does not extend to Confidential Information which:
was in or becomes part of the public domain otherwise than as a result of a breach of this Agreement; or
is disclosed by a Party as required by law.
The Artist must not make or permit to be made a public announcement or media release about any aspect of this Agreement or the Public Art Project without the prior written consent of the Commissioning Party.
All notices required or permitted to be given under this Agreement:
must be in writing and sent to the relevant address provided in Items 1 or 2 (respectively) of the First Schedule; or
may be delivered by hand or sent by pre-paid letter or facsimile transmission; and
will be deemed to have been served if by hand when delivered, if by post 48 hours after posting and if by facsimile, upon receipt of confirmation of successful transmission.
No waiver by a party of any breach of this Agreement is binding unless it is made expressly and confirmed in writing.
A modification or variation of this Agreement must be made in writing and signed by both parties.
Failure or omission by a Party to enforce or require strict compliance with a provision of this Agreement does not affect or impair that provision or the right of the Party to avail themselves of any remedies they may have in respect of any breach of this Agreement.
Neither Party may assign this Agreement or any of his or her rights under this Agreement without the prior written consent of the other Party.
If any provision of this Agreement is void or unenforceable, all other provisions which are self sustaining and capable of separate enforcement without regard to the invalid or unenforceable provisions are and will continue to be valid and enforceable in accordance with their terms.
Neither party shall be liable for any delay or failure to perform its obligations pursuant to this Contract if such delay is due to Force Majeure.
If a delay or failure of a party to perform its obligations is caused or anticipated due to Force Majeure the performance of that party's obligations will be suspended.
If a delay or failure by a party to perform its obligations due to Force Majeure exceeds ninety (90) calendar days either party may immediately terminate the Contract on providing notice in writing to the other party.
This Agreement is governed by and is to be construed in accordance with the laws in force in South Australia and the parties submit to the jurisdiction of its courts.
Each party must bear its own costs of and incidental to the negotiation and preparation of this Agreement.
The Participating Centre agrees to perform the Study at the premises of the Participating Centre through the Principal Investigator in accordance with the Protocol, Good Clinical Practice Guidelines, Regulatory Guidelines, applicable State and Commonwealth legislation and HREC guidelines.
The Participating Centre must ensure that the Principal Investigator:

reads and understands the Protocol;

supervises and takes responsibility for the overall conduct of the Study at the Participating Centre in accordance with the Protocol and reasonable direction from the Coordinating Centre;

is cognisant of and complies with the Good Clinical Practice Guidelines, Regulatory Guidelines, applicable State and Commonwealth legislation and HREC guidelines;

attains HREC and regulatory approval to conduct the Study and provides progress, amendment and adverse event reports to the Coordinating Centre as required;

supervises and manages the Research Coordinator and ensures that other personnel as required are familiar with the Study;

is available with the Research Coordinator for training and Study-related meetings;

is available, with the Research Coordinator, for monitoring visits conducted by the Study Project Manager and assists with auditing of patient records and source documentation and further auditing as reasonably requested;

takes responsibility for the enrolment of eligible patients into the Study and timely, accurate and complete data collection for the Study follow-up period and responds to all data queries within the requested time frame;

takes responsibility for overseeing the acquisition of informed consent from patients or their next of kin or legal surrogate in line with approved mechanisms provided by the HREC;

notifies the Participating Centre of any concurrently running clinical trials or other studies being conducted at the same time as the Study that may conflict with the Study; and

provides miscellaneous reports and other information or services as reasonably requested by the Participating Centre or the Coordinating Centre.
Subject to clause 3.2, the parties agree to each be responsible for all liabilities, costs, losses and expenses (including but not limited to legal fees) arising out of their own (and their respective employees', students', medical and professional staff, agents' and representatives') acts or omissions (including negligence) in the performance of their duties.
The Participating Centre must indemnify the Coordinating Centre and keep the Coordinating Centre indemnified against all liabilities, costs, losses and expenses which the Coordinating Centre incurs as a result of a breach of this Agreement or the Protocol by the Participating Centre, its employees, students, medical and professional staff, agents and representatives.
In consideration for performing the Study, the Coordinating Centre will make payments to the Participating Centre in accordance with the Study budget as set out in Schedule 2.
These payments are to assist with the cost of employing research staff for the duration of the Study.
There will be no "in advance" payments for the Study, however any fees required by individual participating centres for submission of ethics applications shall be covered by the Study budget.
Notwithstanding which party owns the Intellectual Property in the results of the Study, the parties agree to adhere to the principles set out in this clause 5 for use of the data from the Study.
The parties agree that the Principal Investigator and the Participating Centre shall have the right to present at symposia, national or regional professional meetings, and to publish in journals or other publications any data or information derived from the Study provided that:
the Participating Centre must not (and must ensure that the Principal Investigator does not) present or publish data derived from the Study until the complete multi-centre Study has been published in full;
the Participating Centre provides the Executive Committee with copies of the submission for the proposed presentation or publication materials in advance for approval;
following approval from the Executive Committee, the Participating Centre provides the Steering Committee with copies of the submission for the proposed presentation or publication materials in advance of the presentation or publication date for review and comments;
the multi-centre publication, led by the Coordinating Centre, is published before all other individual or partial group presentations, unless such publication does not take place within 18 months of the end of the Study.
In all publications, appropriate credit must be given to all contributors.
Prior to or during the course of the Study, the parties may provide or may have provided one another with Confidential Information.
Subject to clauses 5.2, 5.3 and 5.5, a party receiving Confidential Information shall use reasonable efforts to not disclose the Confidential Information to anyone other than as provided for in this Agreement or in the Protocol without the prior written approval of the disclosing party.
This obligation shall survive the expiry or early termination of this Agreement and shall remain in effect for a period of five years following the expiry or early termination of the Study.
Furthermore, any party receiving Confidential Information shall not use, either directly or indirectly, any Confidential Information for any purpose other than as set out in this Agreement without the prior written consent of the disclosing party.
The obligations of clause 5.4 shall not apply to Confidential Information which:
must be disclosed to potential patients during the recruitment process, and patients who are or were enrolled in the Study or any of their legal guardians, in order to obtain and maintain informed consent or as the information relates to their health, safety or diagnosis;

must be disclosed to the HREC of the Participating Centre or, if the Study is multi-centre, must be disclosed to HRECs of Participating Centres reviewing the Protocol in order to coordinate the review; or

is required by statute or judicial process to be disclosed.
In the event that a party ("receiving party") is required by judicial or administrative process to disclose any Confidential Information disclosed to it by the other party ("disclosing party"), the receiving party shall promptly notify the disclosing party and allow the disclosing party reasonable time to oppose such process before disclosing any Confidential Information.
The Participating Centre must protect the privacy of all patients enrolled in the Study at the Participating Centre in accordance with the Protocol and all privacy laws in force in the Participating Centre's country.
The parties agree that:

the Principal Publications will be in the names of the Chief Investigator and the Executive Committee;

there will be a full listing of collaborating Principal Investigators and Participating Centres at the end of the Principal Publications; and

funding bodies that have supported the Study will also receive acknowledgment at the end of all publications.
All Intellectual Property owned by a party at the commencement of this Agreement remains the property of that party.
All Intellectual Property (including, without limitation, inventions, discoveries, new uses, processes, or compounds) developed solely by a party under this agreement remains and is hereby assigned as the sole property of that party.
All Intellectual Property (including, without limitation, inventions, discoveries, new uses, processes, or compounds) developed jointly by the parties and any other Participating Centres (together, "Inventors") shall be owned by and is hereby assigned as the joint property of the Inventors as tenants in common.
The ownership share of each Inventor will be in proportion to each Inventor's contribution to the development of the Intellectual Property.
If the parties cannot agree on their respective ownership rights under clause 7.3, this shall be resolved in accordance with the dispute resolution process set out in clause 10.
The parties agree that where there is a dispute between any of the Inventors arising from this and other agreements relating to the Study, the dispute resolution process in clause 10 may be applied to resolve the dispute between all the Inventors simultaneously as if all the Inventors in dispute were parties to this Agreement.
Notwithstanding ownership of Intellectual Property as set out in this clause, each party's right to publish data or other results from the Study shall be governed by the provisions of clause 5.
Subject to any confidentiality obligation or any applicable laws, the Participating Centre agrees to make all Study data available to the Coordinating Centre or to any relevant government regulatory authority for audit purposes, in accordance with the Protocol.
The Participating Centre must retain all information relating to patients and other data relating to the Study for 15 years following completion or discontinuation of the Study, or as otherwise required by law.
A party may terminate this Agreement by giving 30 days' written notice to the other party.
A party may terminate this Agreement immediately, by giving notice in writing to the other party, if any of the following occurs:
the other party commits a breach of this Agreement which is not rectifiable;
a party fails to rectify a breach of this Agreement which is rectifiable within 30 days after receiving a written notice from the other party specifying the breach and requiring the first party to rectify it;
the party reasonably believes that continuing the Study would compromise patient safety.
approval to conduct the Study is withdrawn by the relevant regulatory or health authorities or by the HREC; or
the parties agree in writing that it is inappropriate, impractical or inadvisable to continue the Study.
If a dispute arises under this Agreement, a party must immediately give written notice to the other party, giving details of the dispute and requesting that a meeting take place to discuss it.
A nominated representative of each party must meet within 7 days after the notice is received.
They must try, in good faith, to resolve the dispute.
If the meeting does not take place or the dispute remains unresolved 7 days after the meeting, either party to the dispute may refer the matter to mediation by giving written notice to the other party.
If the parties do not agree on a mediator within 5 days thereafter, he or she is to be nominated by the President of the Law Institute of Victoria or his or her nominee.
The mediation must be held within 14 days after the mediation notice is given.
Each party must contribute equally to the fees and expenses of the mediator.
If the mediation does not result in resolution of the dispute within 14 days after the mediation notice is given, either party may take legal proceedings.
Clauses 10.1 and 10.2 do not restrict or limit the right of a party to obtain interlocutory relief, or to immediately terminate this Agreement where this Agreement provides such a right.
No waiver of any provision of this Agreement will be of any force or effect unless confirmed in writing, signed by the parties.
Then such waiver will be effective only to the extent for which it is made.
The invalidity or unenforceability of any provisions of this Agreement will not affect the validity or enforceability of all other provisions that are self-sustaining and capable of separate enforcement.
This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement and understanding between the parties with respect to its subject matter.
It replaces all previous agreements between, or undertakings by, either of the parties with respect to its subject matter.
This Agreement can only be changed by the written agreement of the parties.
The laws of the State of Victoria, Australia will govern this Agreement.
Each party submits to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of the courts of that state and courts entitled to hear appeals from those courts.
Clauses 3, 5 and 7 will continue to apply after this Agreement ends.
Neither party will be liable for any failure or delay in the performance of its obligations under this Agreement to the extent that such failure or delay arises from any circumstances beyond its control.
The parties will, during the term of this Agreement (and, where expressly applicable, thereafter), execute and deliver all documents or instruments as may be required in order to give effect to the purpose and intent of this Agreement.
This Agreement will bind and enure for the benefit of the parties and their respective successors in title.
No party may assign any other respective rights and obligations without the prior written consent of the other parties.
The relationship between the parties is that of independent contractors and will not be deemed to be that of principal/agent, joint venture, partnership or otherwise.
No party is authorised to act on behalf of the other.
The Recipient must:
not copy or extract any Confidential Information without the prior written consent of the CEO; and
whenever the CEO asks, and if the Recipient's involvement with the Centre is terminated for any reason, promptly deliver to the Participant or the CRC Group all materials containing any of the Confidential Information, or (if the CEO asks) promptly destroy those materials and notify the CEO of their destruction.
The Recipient must immediately notify the Participant or the CEO in writing if the Recipient becomes aware of any unauthorised use or disclosure of any Confidential Information by any third party, or any possible or actual breach of the terms of this Deed.
In consideration of the Recipient's engagement to participate in the Activities or the management of the Centre (as the case may be), the Recipient assigns all Recipient Intellectual Property to the Company, to be held in accordance with the terms of the CRC Agreement.
Where the Recipient is an employee of the Participant:
the Recipient acknowledges that all Recipient Intellectual Property is owned by the Participant;
to avoid any doubt and to ensure that all Recipient Intellectual Property is assigned to the Company, the Recipient grants the assignment given under clause 3.1; and
the Participant assigns all of the Participant's right title and interest in all Recipient Intellectual Property to the Company, to be held in accordance with the terms of the CRC Agreement.
The Recipient agrees to assist the Participant and the CRC Group in every possible way (at the CRC Group's expense) to obtain and enforce any patent or other form of intellectual property protection of the Recipient Intellectual Property, including where it comprises part of Centre Intellectual Property, both during and after the period of the Recipient's involvement in the Centre.
The Recipient and the Participant agree to execute any document and to do all things that may be necessary to give effect to the assignments in clause 3.1 and 3.2 and, in the case of the Recipient, to provide assistance under clause 3.3.
The Recipient warrants and represents to the CRC Group and the Company that the Recipient:
is entitled to enter into this Deed, perform all of the Recipient's obligations under this Deed; and
does not breach any other agreement to which the Recipient is a party by entering into this Deed, and will not enter into any subsequent agreement whether written or oral which is inconsistent with, or will cause the Recipient to breach the terms of, this Deed.
The Recipient authorises the CRC Group to disclose the existence and the terms of this Deed to any person or organisation for the purposes relating to the Centre including, but not limited to, the Recipient's future employers, and customers and prospective customers of any CRC Group member.
The Participant warrants and represents to the CRC Group and the Company that it is entitled to enter into this Deed and grant the assignment given under clause 3.2.
The Company and RMIT have been involved in negotiations concerning the subject matter of this agreement.
The Company and RMIT have agreed that this document shall record the terms agreed in their negotiations.
In this agreement (including the Recitals and any Annexures or Schedules) unless the context otherwise requires:

a reference to this agreement or another instrument includes any amendment or replacement of it and despite any change in the identity of the parties;

if any party to this agreement comprises two or more persons then the obligations of those persons are joint and several;
a provision of this agreement which is in favour of two or more persons is for the benefit of them jointly and severally;
A reference to any person includes that person's legal personal representatives and if any person is a corporation a reference to that person includes its successors and assigns;
words denoting the singular number include the plural number and vice versa and words importing one gender include the other gender;


The Term of this agreement begins on Commencement Date and ends on Expiry Date, unless extended or terminated earlier due to default.
Prior to expiration of the Term, the parties may agree in writing to extend the Term.
The title to and all Intellectual Property Rights in RMIT Material remains the property of RMIT at all times.
Each party undertakes to keep secret and protect and preserve the confidential nature and secrecy of the Confidential Information of the other party.
Without limiting this obligation, a party must not:

use or permit any person to use the other party's Confidential Information for any purpose other than the performance of this agreement;
disclose or in any way communicate to any other person any of the other party's Confidential Information except as authorised by the other party;
permit unauthorised persons to have access to places where the other party's Confidential Information is displayed, reproduced or stored; or
make or assist any person to make any unauthorised use of the other party's Confidential Information.
Each party must take reasonable steps to enforce the confidentiality obligations imposed by sub-clause 1 above including diligently prosecuting, at its own cost, any breach or threatened breach of those obligations by a person to whom the party has disclosed the Confidential Information.
A party may disclose the other party's  Confidential Information to its advisers in relation to its rights under this agreement or to its employees and sub-contractors on a need to know basis, solely to assist in the performance of obligations under this agreement and on the condition that such persons do not disclose the Confidential Information to any other person.
The obligations of confidentiality under this agreement shall survive expiration or earlier termination of this agreement.
An Event of Default occurs if any one or more of the following events occurs in respect of a party ("defaulting party")
default be made by the defaulting party in the performance or observance of any other obligation on its part contained in this agreement and if such default can be remedied, is not remedied within fourteen (14) days of written notification from the other party that it requires that default to be remedied;
an Event of Insolvency occurs in respect of the defaulting party.
If an Event of Default occurs in respect of a defaulting party, then the other party may in its discretion terminate this agreement by written notification to the defaulting party.
The indemnity in clause 9.2 is given by each party to the other of them.
A party ("the indemnifying party") indemnifies and will keep indemnified the other party ("the indemnified party") and its officers, employees, agents, contractors and consultants from and against all actions, claims, proceedings or demands (including those brought by third parties) which may be brought against it or them, whether on their own or jointly with the indemnifying party in respect of any loss, death, injury, illness, damages, costs or expenses (but excluding consequential financial loss) where caused by any unlawful or negligent act of the indemnifying party, its employees, agents, sub-contractors or consultants arising from the indemnifying party's exercise of its rights or obligations under  this agreement or from any other loss which may arise from or as a result of any breach of the terms of this agreement by the indemnifying party, its employees, agents, sub-contractors or consultants.
The indemnifying party's obligation to indemnify the indemnified party and its officers, employees and agents set out in sub-clause 2 is a continuing obligation separate and independent from the indemnifying party's other obligations and will survive expiration or earlier termination of this agreement.
If a party becomes aware of any matter likely to constitute a Force Majeure Event affecting its obligations under this agreement, it must within 5 business days of the occurrence of the Force Majeure Event give to the other party a notice containing full particulars, including the likely effect of the Force Majeure Event on the relevant obligations ("suspension notice").
Where a party has provided a suspension notice, the non-financial obligations of that party under this agreement shall be suspended, to the extent they are effected by the Force Majeure Event, until the cessation of the Force Majeure Event provided however that the maximum periods of suspension of obligations under this clause shall be 6 months per event from the date of occurrence of the relevant Force Majeure Event.
The Company must effect and maintain at all times during the Term  the following insurances:

Public Liability insurance for an amount of not less than $10,000,000.
Professional Indemnity insurance for an amount of not less than *** [SEE USER NOTES].
Product Liability insurance for an amount of not less than *** [SEE USER NOTES].
The Company must provide RMIT with certified copies of all relevant policies upon being requested to do so by RMIT.
The Guarantor unconditionally and irrevocably guarantees to RMIT the performance of each of the Company's obligations under this agreement.
The Guarantor unconditionally and irrevocably indemnifies RMIT against all losses or costs arising out of any breach, or any losses or costs caused to another person, by the Company or by its employees, agents or sub-contractors.
The Guarantor will obtain independent legal advice about the decision of the Guarantor to assume the obligations and liability under this clause and acknowledges having read this agreement.
The Guarantor waives any right of first requiring RMIT to proceed against the Company before exercising its rights under this clause.
Where the Guarantor comprises more than one person, then the obligations of the Guarantor are joint and several.
The obligations and liability of the Guarantor under this clause are assumed by the Guarantor in consideration of RMIT agreeing to enter into this agreement with the Company.
If a dispute arises in respect of any aspect of this agreement which is capable of resolution between the parties, then the parties must attempt to resolve that dispute in good faith and no party shall be entitled to exercise any of its rights under this agreement or at law unless:

that party has served a notice on the other party requesting resolution of the dispute, and

the dispute has not been resolved within fourteen (14) days of the date of service of the notice.
A provision of or a right created by this agreement cannot be waived except in writing signed by the party granting the waiver.
No variation to or amendment of this agreement can be made without the consent in writing of all of the parties.
Where any provision of this agreement provides for a party to provide its consent or approval then such party may conditionally or unconditionally in its absolute discretion give or withhold such consent or approval unless this agreement expressly provides otherwise.
The parties agree to bear their own costs (including legal costs) in respect of this agreement.
The Company must not novate, assign or subcontract this agreement or any of its obligations under this agreement without the prior written consent of RMIT.
This agreement can be executed in a number of counterparts and the counterparts taken together will be deemed to constitute the one and the same document.
Any notice, demand, consent, approval or other communication ("a Communication") in connection with this agreement by a party may (without limitation to any other valid form of execution) be signed by an authorised officer of that party (if a corporation), or by any solicitor acting for that party, whose signature may be hand-written or printed or otherwise reproduced by mechanical means.
Service under sub-clause 2 will be valid even though the addressee may have been wound up or in liquidation (if a corporation) or the addressee is absent from the place at or to which the Communication is left, delivered or sent, or where the Communication is sent by post or otherwise, it is returned unclaimed.
A Communication in connection with this agreement will be deemed to have been received by the person:

if left or delivered personally, on the same day;

if sent by post to an address in Australia, on the second business day after the date of posting;

if sent by post to an address outside Australia, on the fourth business day after the date of posting;

in the case of a facsimile, on receipt of the facsimile in legible form.
Unless the parties otherwise agree in writing a Communication in connection with the agreement may not be sent by electronic mail ("email").
The Landowner shall do all things necessary to manage The Land in accordance with this Agreement and any Schedules and Annexure; and
This Agreement over freehold land is in perpetuity and binds all future owners and those with an interest in The Land.
The Landholder shall inform the Minister as soon as practicable after becoming aware of the existence and nature of any Threatening Process in relation to The Land.
The State may provide assistance to the Landholder, including:
advice on the control of pest plants and animals;
assistance with wildfire prevention and suppression;
assistance in enforcing any regulation pertaining to the Land.
The Landholder may, on invitation from the Queensland Parks and Wildlife Service, apply for financial assistance for management of the Land.
The State shall pay any relevant stamp duties associated with this Agreement.
Each party shall bear its own costs of negotiating and executing this Agreement.
The Landholder shall notify the Minister, within 14 days of the sale of The Land, of the name and address of the person or persons to whom The Land was sold or the lease transferred.
This Agreement shall not expire and is binding on the Landholder's Successors in Title and those with an interest in The Land.
The Landholder acknowledges that the State will not be liable for any act, or failure to act, which occurs on The Land, merely because of the commencement of this Agreement or the declaration of a Nature Refuge over The Land.
This Agreement may not be terminated unless the declaration of the Nature Refuge to which it relates is revoked in accordance with section 50 of the Act.
If a party believes it can demonstrate that the other party is in significant breach of this Agreement, the first party may give written notice requesting rectification;
If a significant breach of this Agreement is demonstrated, the parties undertake to use their best endeavours to cooperate to resolve the dispute within a period of 14 working days of notice given under clause 13(i);
If a dispute cannot be resolved under clauses 13(i) and (ii), a party may issue a "Notice of Dispute" to the other party, specifying the dispute and requiring its resolution in accordance with the remaining provisions of this clause;
If the dispute is not resolved within 14 days of service of the Notice of Dispute, the dispute is by this clause submitted to mediation.
The Institute of Arbitrators Australia "Rules for the Mediation of Commercial Disputes" (latest edition) apply to the mediation, except where they conflict with this Clause;
The parties agree to jointly determine the mediator (and the mediator's remuneration) within seven working days of the expiry of the Notice Period.
If agreement is not reached, the parties agree that the mediator will be the person appointed by (and the remuneration of the mediator is the amount or rate determined by) the President of the Queensland Law Society or the President's nominee, acting on the request of either party to the dispute;
Parties to the Agreement agree to share equally the costs of such mediation; 
If the dispute is not resolved within 28 working days after the appointment of the mediator, any party may take legal proceedings to resolve the dispute or may apply to the Minister for the Nature Refuge to be revoked; and
This Clause does not prevent any party from obtaining from a court or judge, any urgent injunctive, declaratory or interlocutory orders to protect that party's rights or position under the Agreement.
If any provision of this Agreement is found to be invalid, the remainder of the Agreement continues to apply.
None of the prohibitions and restrictions specified in this Agreement will apply to the extent necessary for reasonable protection from wildfire or other threatening events, having regard to the safety of human life and property.
Service will be deemed given:
by mail five (5) days after deposit in the mail with postage prepaid; or
when delivered by hand; or
by facsimile upon apparently successful transmission being noted by the sender's facsimile machine; or
by e-mail upon apparently successful transmission being noted by the sender's computer.
Landholder shall assist in the protection, preservation and conservation of the Conservation Area, by strictly adhering to the following conditions:
subject to clause 2 of this Schedule 2, no forest product whether living or dead, or other plant life on the Conservation Area may be trimmed, pruned, cut down, damaged, destroyed, moved, harvested or removed from the Conservation Area;
no part of the Conservation Area, including soil, gravel or rock may be  disturbed, explored for minerals, moved or removed from the Conservation Area;
other than required by law or regulation, no herbicides, insecticides or pesticides may be applied or introduced on or to the Conservation Area;
there may be no alteration or interference with the hydrology of the Conservation Area, unless the Landowner receives the prior written consent of the other party;
the Conservation Area must not be polluted or contaminated by any matter, in particular, weeds or pathogens;
there must be no interference with, or alteration of, any wetland or body of water in or on the Conservation Area;
subject to clause 4 of this Schedule 2, no fixtures or improvements, including buildings or other structures may be built, affixed or placed on the Conservation Area;
without limiting clause 4 of this Schedule 2, no road or trail, walking track or other nature based recreation activity may be laid out, constructed or undertaken on the Conservation Area, unless the Landowner has received the prior written consent of the Minister;
without limiting clause 4 of this Schedule 2, no fill, soil, rock, rubbish, ashes, garbage, waste or other material foreign to the Conservation Area may be deposited in or on the Conservation Area;
the Landowner must not introduce onto the Conservation Area any animals which are not native to the Conservation Area; and take reasonable measures to prevent the entry of non-indigenous fauna, including domestic and feral animals;
the Landowner must take reasonable measures to prevent the introduction, establishment and spread of weeds and weed infestations and control any weeds to reduce their impact on the natural environment;
unless required by law, there is no exploration or mining, extraction or production of gas, petroleum, minerals or other substances or the establishment of any transmission lines or other services or works; and if proposing any of these activities, the Landholder shall notify the Minister and shall not undertake, consent to or approve such proposal without the prior written permission of the Minister;
subdivision of the Land is not permitted or to be applied for ; and
no other acts may be carried out on or in respect of the Conservation Area which, in the opinion of the Minister, acting reasonably, may have a detrimental impact on the Conservation Area.
Notwithstanding the provisions of clause 1 of this Schedule 2:
if any living or dead tree on the Conservation Area poses a threat to the safety of those on or immediately adjacent to the land by its falling or fire, that tree may be cut down or trimmed without the prior written consent of the other party, so as to remove the risk, but the Landowner and the other party agree that unless it would constitute a fire hazard, the cut tree or trimmings must be left on the Conservation Area so that natural processes can occur; 
any sustainable harvesting of native seed and fruit, in accordance with the Nature Conservation (Protected Areas) Regulation 1994, and the Code of Practice for the Taking and Use of Protected Plants (2001) is permitted; and
scientific research conducted in an ecologically sustainable manner, including the collection of specimens for the purpose of species identification; biodiscovery; and commercialisation from such discoveries; and for the long term protection and maintenance of the ecosystems and ecosystem processes of The Conservation Area and similar areas, subject to any necessary permits and authorities under relevant legislation is permitted.
The Landowner shall not deny access to the Conservation Area to the other party's, authorised officers, employees, servants or agents, on reasonable notice from them for the purpose of observation and monitoring of the Conservation Area.
The construction and maintenance of walking tracks, viewing platforms, rest points access, driveway, or crossing and seating, for nature based recreation activities, to best practice construction standards; 
Conduct of low impact private or commercial nature based recreational and educational activities;
Habitat restoration including weed control and revegetation utilising species associated with Regional Ecosystem types 7.3.3, 7.3.5, 7.3.7, 7.3.10 and 7.11.1;
Use of fire to maintain vegetation structure and diversity;
The erection of interpretive and promotional signs with the purpose of interpreting the natural values of The Conservation Area and or the Development Area and the contribution of any sponsors in the protection and restoration of the natural values of The Conservation Area and the Development Area; 
on the Conservation Area, the landowner shall liaise with the other party to determine the most environmentally beneficial placement of such things; and


The following activities subject always to the approval of any relevant authority may be undertaken on, or in respect to, The Development Area:
Construction of a dwelling or dwellings and other buildings or structures;
Construction and maintenance of walking tracks, viewing platforms, rest points and seating, for nature based recreation activities, to best practice construction standards; 
Conduct of low impact private or commercial nature based recreational and educational activities;
Habitat restoration including weed control and revegetation utilising species associated with Regional Ecosystem types 7.3.3, 7.3.5, 7.3.7, 7.3.10 and 7.11.1;
Use of fire to maintain vegetation structure and diversity;
The erection of interpretive and promotional signs with the purpose of interpreting the natural values of The Conservation Area and or the Development Area and the contribution of any sponsors in the protection and restoration of the natural values of The Conservation Area and the Development Area; 
Horses and cattle are restricted in numbers to the carrying capacity of the Development Area;
No dogs, cats, pigs, goats or other livestock is permitted with the exception of poultry for home use, without the written permission before the event of the Minister;
Keeping of any permitted livestock to be undertaken only once secure fencing and feeding and watering facilities are in place restricting any animals from accessing the Conservation Area;
The Landowner will use their best endeavours to exclude feral animals from the Development Area and undertake immediate control actions to deal with the incursion of feral animals;
Only locally endemic native plants are permitted to exist in the Development Area, excluding fruit and vegetables; 
No vegetable matter, including grass clippings, material from pruning or seeds or fruits from the Development Area should deposited on the Conservation Area;
All plants which are listed as Declared Plants under the Land Protection (Stock Route Management) Act 2003 are not permitted to be grown or allowed to grow on the Development Area;
Fire may be used as an ecological tool only within areas where fire is a natural or necessary occurrence;
Planning and implementation of prescribed burns should be carried out in conjunction with responsible agencies;
The Landowner shall undertake any necessary works to minimise soil erosion; 
Harvesting and storage of rainfall from roof areas using above-ground tanks and the capture of ground and rain water in a dam is permitted; and
Interaction with native fauna is limited to observation and recording and care for their habitats.
The Landholder shall undertake the following monitoring and reporting actions:
A record of any rare or threatened wildlife sighted on The Land;
A record shall be kept of any habitat restoration works undertaken on The Conservation Area, either through privately or publicly funded projects.
This includes weed control methods, herbicides used, tree species planted and site location details; 
Where works are undertaken on the Conservation Area under any government provided special project funding, a copy of the Project Completion Report will serve as the record for those works;
A record of fires on the Conservation Area from managed and natural sources shall be kept.
This includes time and date of fires, locations burnt and intensity of fire; and
The Landholder shall collect the above information as necessary and provide a report to the other party every five years from the date of signing of this agreement.
Unusual or exceptional business models not covered by this Clause 3.3 or Appendix 4 shall fall within the scope of Appendix 2 which may be updated on a case-by-case basis where mutually agreed by the parties.
Client's share shall be subject to written mutual acceptance.
PARTNER shall invoice PARTNER's clients regularly with the term of payment common and usual within the field of this kind of business, but no greater than thirty (30) days from date of invoice.
Unless otherwise stated in writing (email), PARTNER is not allowed to use third party add-ons and/or other additional services to alter or modify a Product.
The Parties acknowledge that all Service delivery terms shall be mutually agreed between the Parties before making commercial arrangements with a Client.
BAREFOOT may have some guidelines and minimum requirements that the Parties need to follow.
Such requirements are end user fee and Client's revenue share.
Such requirements shall be stated on separate documentation and informed to BAREFOOT clearly and accurately before entering into any commercial arrangements, delivered case by case without BAREFOOT's separate request.
BAREFOOT is responsible for the technical and artistic quality of the Products and warrants that all Products to be of the same high quality as applications which BAREFOOT has provided to its other partners and clients.
The Product portfolio shall be updated with the latest releases without any delay after the newest release.
PARTNER is solely responsible for ensuring that the Services offered by Clients under this Agreement always conform to law and good custom in the Territory.
In case of revenue sharing agreement, revenue to be paid to BAREFOOT shall be calculated based on the total funds received from billed volume, based on the monthly report coming from each Client.
All fees and payment shall be paid in <<AGREED CURRENCY>>.
PARTNER shall organize online reporting tools for BAREFOOT to use indicating the number of downloaded transactions of the Licensed Products.
PARTNER shall make payment to BAREFOOT within ten (10) working days from the end of every month of its share entitlements to all revenue accrued for that month from all Clients or other forms of distribution.
In case of any other payment terms such as sponsor payment, set up fee, integration fee, customization fee, or similar, those shall be treated similarly as revenue share if outside the scope of Clause 3.3.
PARTNER shall keep all the usual proper records and books of account relating to distribution and downloading of the Products under this Agreement.
BAREFOOT may audit those books and records and conduct such audit only during PARTNER's usual business hours, and at the place where it keeps the books and records to be examined, after providing at least thirty (30) days prior notice.
Such audit shall be conducted at BAREFOOT's sole expense, except that if any audit reveals an error resulting in an underpayment to BAREFOOT of five percent (5%) or more of the total amount accounted to BAREFOOT during the accounting periods audited, then PARTNER shall pay to BAREFOOT all reasonable audit costs, including travel, hotel together with the underpayment.
The Parties represent, warrant and agree that they have the full right, power and authority to enter into this Agreement and fulfill the duties and responsibilities stated hereunder.
BAREFOOT shall not in any circumstances contact directly PARTNER's Clients or prospects (that have been brought to the attention of BAREFOOT by PARTNER) without PARTNER's prior consent and knowledge and all inquiries received from said companies must be brought to PARTNER's attention by BAREFOOT for servicing and follow up.
Such Clients will be subject to revenue share fee stated in Clause 3.3.
Each party hereunder will hold the other party, its successors, assigns, agents and licensees, free and harmless from and against any and all claims, demands, damages, expenses, losses or costs (including reasonable attorney's fees and costs), or any sums paid in settlement, arising out of or incurred as a direct result of any actual breach of the representations, warranties, agreements and undertakings of or by the party concerned.
The parties acknowledge and agree that the trademark, service mark, logo and trade name as applied to this Agreement are the property of the original titleholders and each party is committed to avoiding any infringement of trademark, service mark and trade name.
PARTNER shall take all steps to secure and maintain protection of the Products as permitted pursuant to copyright and equivalent or similar laws through the Territory.
This Agreement shall become effective on the date of execution of this Agreement, and shall continue in force for a period of twelve (12) months ("Initial Term").
Upon the expiry of the Initial Term, this Agreement shall automatically and annually be renewed for another 12 months  ("Renewal Term") unless either party wishes to terminate the Agreement by giving at least thirty (30) days prior written notice.
For a period of eighteen (18) months after the agreement termination, any BAREFOOT products/services sale to PARTNER's Client will be subject to the revenue share fee as stated in Clause 3.3.
Either party may by written notice terminate this Agreement with immediate effect if the other party has committed a material breach of this Agreement, and not rectified the same within a time which shall be reasonable taking into account previous technical and other relevant conditions after receipt of a written request specifying the breach from the other party.
From the date of termination of this agreement as described in Clauses 5.1 and 5.3, the parties shall account for all outstanding monies due within 15 working days after receiving payment from mobile network operators or Clients.
After the termination of this Agreement, the Parties will refrain from further direct or indirect use of the information obtained from the other Party.
Also, either Party must immediately give up all the copies of the Products, Product guides, books, and goods, correspondence and other documents in the wider sense of the word that it has in its possession when this Agreement terminates (for example documents, diskettes, CD's, DVD's and so on), which are connected to the other Party, or copies of any such documents or notes.
Except for termination due to the breach of this Agreement by PARTNER, PARTNER may complete transactions that have already been initiated with Clients and the applicable terms and conditions of this Agreement shall be extended for the time necessary to complete such transactions.
Each party shall keep confidential all provisions of this Agreement and shall not make any public announcement of it or its subject matter without the other party's prior written consent.
Each party agrees not to use or disclose the Confidential Information disclosed to it by the other party for any purpose except to further the objective of this Agreement.
Each party agrees that it will take all reasonable measures to protect the secrecy of and avoid disclosure or use of confidential Information of the other in order to prevent it from falling into the public domain or possession of persons other that those persons authorized thereunder to have any such information, which measures shall include at least a reasonable degree of care.
This provision shall be binding on the parties and shall be treated and safeguarded thereunder by the Receiving Party for a period, which shall coincide with the entire duration of this Agreement.
Both Parties shall indemnify, hold harmless and defend the other Party and its partners, principals, employees or agents thereof (each of the foregoing being hereinafter referred to individually as an "Indemnified Party") against all claims, liabilities, losses, expenses (including attorney's fees and legal expenses related to such defense), fines, penalties, taxes or damages (collectively "Liabilities") asserted by any third party where such Liabilities arise out of (i) the negligence or willful misconduct of either Party or its personnel; (ii) the representations or warranties made by either Party; (iii) the violation by either Party, or violation caused by the exploitation of work, information or materials provided by either Party, of any third party's trade secrets, proprietary information, trademark, copyright, or patent rights; or (iv) a third party claim by any employee, independent contractor or invite of either Party including without limitation those seeking employer-employee claims or benefits from either Party.
Nothing contained or implied in this Agreement shall constitute or be deemed to constitute a partnership/Joint Venture between the parties and no party shall have authority to bind or commit the other party except as provided herein.
This agreement shall be interpreted and construed in all respects in accordance with Hong Kong law and any dispute arising hereunder shall be subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of the Special Administrative Region of Hong Kong court.
All modifications and additions to this Agreement and appendices must be made in writing and must be signed by both Parties.
Such occurrences may be but shall not be limited to war, mutiny, internal unrest, expropriation, or confiscation for public needs, embargo, discontinuation of public transportation, or supply of energy, labour conflict or fire or some unusual event with equally drastic effects beyond the Parties' control.
Any notice, consent, approval, or correspondence between relating parties shall be in writing in English and shall be deemed served if sent to addresses indicated herebelow by personal delivery or registered mail or electronic mail or facsimile, provided that if sent by facsimile a registered or personal confirmation must be sent within twenty-four (24) hours after the transmission to the following addresses:


BAREFOOT may introduce some of its Clients or other business partners to PARTNER for the purpose of coordination of defined projects and boosting the sales (all duties referred to hereinafter as "Sales Promoter Activities").
In any circumstances PARTNER may not use appointed Clients or BAREFOOT's business partners for its own use without BAREFOOT's prior consent.
Violation shall be considered a material breach of this Agreement and grounds for termination as set out in 5.3.
All other terms and roles shall be agreed case by case once they are appointed to PARTNER.
BAREFOOT will provide demo projects given that more detail is required to publishing these types of titles.
General specifications are;

Background Image for first screen - 240 x 300 - JPG image to be less than 10kb
Cover Images for each section saved as cover.png (PNG8) 105 (w) x 140 (h)
Each section that will be displayed on the first screen will be driven by number of folders.
Each Folder (section) will contain a text file call content.txt containing TAGS for Headers (which are displayed in the Table of Contents section, within the section), placement of Images within the section.
Images should be a maximum of 240 pixels wide, and 260 pixels high for best results on a 240 x 320 screen.
Best image formats are PNG8 and JPG and GIF (PNG8 for best results)
Application icons, plus JAR title and file name are same specifications used in mBookX 

For each eBookX title tweaking will be required between BAREFOOT and the PARTNER to get the desired results for final build.
Under this model, BAREFOOT will charge a commitment fee which covers the cost of packaging (same as Non-commercial Demo model).
The published titles will be marketed directly by PARTNER or PARTNER's clients to gain "commercial" revenue.
Ownership of Intellectual Property and Confidential Information

As against NAME, CDx, is and will, to the full extent and for the full period permitted by law, remain the owner of:

CDx's Confidential Information; and

CDx's Intellectual Property.
As against CDx, NAME, is and will, to the full extent and for the full period permitted by law, remain the owner of:
  
NAME's Confidential Information; and

NAME's Intellectual Property.
Subject to the limitations of Clause 2.3, each party covenants that it will not hold itself out as owning nor deal or purport to deal in any way with any of the other party's Confidential Information or Intellectual Property without the prior written consent of the other party.
The discussion of the parties' respective Intellectual Property and Confidential Information is not an offer for sale of any materials that may be discussed, and neither party shall be under any obligation to license or transfer its Intellectual Property or Confidential Information to the other party; and each party reserves the right to license or transfer its own Intellectual Property or Confidential Information to whichever party or parties as it may, in its sole discretion, determine advisable, or not at all.
In consideration of the mutual covenants of the parties to this Agreement, and subject to Clause 2.3, the Recipient covenants in favour of the Discloser that it will not without the prior written consent of the Discloser:
copy, communicate, publish or disclose the Confidential Information of the Discloser; nor
cause or allow the Confidential Information of the Discloser to be copied by or communicated, published or disclosed verbally, in writing, by electronic means or by any other means or medium,

The Recipient will do all things necessary to ensure that its employees, researchers, consultants and agents comply with the Recipient's obligations under Clause 2.1.
This Agreement will not apply to any part of the Confidential Information or Intellectual Property that:
was known or possessed by the Recipient at the time of the disclosure to the Recipient by the Discloser, the onus of proving which rests with the Recipient;
is or may be legally acquired by the Recipient from any third party that has the right to disclose except where the Confidential Information or Intellectual Property is provided to the Recipient by a third party at the request of the Discloser;
is disclosed by the Recipient pursuant to any law or order of any court, or any governmental agency or other regulatory body with which the Recipient is bound to comply;
was already in the public domain, other than by reason of the Recipient having disclosed it, at the date on which it was used or disclosed by the Recipient, the onus of proving which shall be on the Recipient; or 
was independently developed by the Recipient or its agents or employees without knowledge of or reliance on the Confidential Information disclosed to Recipient by the Discloser.
Notwithstanding Clauses 2.3 (a) through (e), information disclosed by one party to another shall still be deemed Confidential Information of the Discloser subject to the protection of this Agreement if such disclosed information is:

a specific embodiment that is only generally described by  information in the public domain or the Recipient's possession; or

a combination that can be pieced together and reconstructed from multiple sources, none of which shows the whole combination of materials, its principle of operation, and method of use.
The Recipient will, within ten days of receiving written notice from the Discloser requesting the return of the Confidential Information:
return in a secure and confidential manner all written or eye or machine readable versions and copies of  any or all of the Confidential Information (as the notice requires); and
delete or destroy any other record (including electronic) of any part of the Confidential Information required by the Discloser to be returned which cannot be physically delivered to the Discloser; 
except that Recipient's Legal Department may keep one copy of the Confidential Information in its files for the purpose of Recipient determining its compliance with its obligations under this Agreement.
This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of Queensland.
This Agreement may be referred to as the National Third Party Access Code for Natural Gas Pipeline Systems:  Fifth Amending Agreement.
In this Agreement, unless the contrary intention appears, capitalised terms not otherwise defined have the meaning given in the Code and:

At the end of section 8.36 of the Code insert:
Non Capital Costs may include, but are not limited to, costs incurred for generic market development activities aimed at increasing long-term demand for the delivery of the Reference Service.
This Agreement may consist of a number of counterparts and if so the counterparts taken together constitute one and the same instrument.
The Consultant must perform the Services in a diligent manner, with all necessary skill and care and in accordance with all the representations and warranties as to the Consultant's experience and ability expressly or impliedly made by reference to its Proposal and this Agreement, or by law.
The Consultant must use all reasonable efforts to have informed itself and to remain informed of the requirements of the Principal in performing the Services under this Agreement and to this end must regularly consult with the Principal during the performance of the Services to the satisfaction of the Principal.
The Consultant must perform the Services expeditiously and in accordance with the time limits if any specified in Item 2 of the Schedule.
The Consultant has no authority to enter into any agreement on behalf of the Principal without the prior written approval of the Principal.
Consent given by the Principal in accordance with this clause does 	not relieve the Consultant from its obligations under this 	Agreement.
The Consultant accepts all responsibility for the secure guardianship   of Principal's Materials.
Upon completion of this Agreement or in the event of termination, the Consultant must as soon as practicable return to the Principal the Principal's Materials and the Contract Material.
Clause 3.5(b) does not operate to prevent the Consultant from keeping a bona fide copy of the Contract Materials for its records subject always to Clause 3.6.
The Consultant must not without prior written consent of the 			Principal disclose any information in connection with the Services 		or this Agreement to any person not a party to this Agreement other 		than:
as necessary to perform the Services or
with respect to any matter within public knowledge.
The Consultant acknowledges and agrees that clause 3.6 will  		survive the expiration or termination of this Agreement.
The Consultant must not assign or sub-contract any part of the 	Services without the prior written consent of the Principal.
The Principal may impose any terms and conditions it considers 	appropriate when giving its approval under clause 3.7(a).
Consent given by the Principal in accordance with this clause does 	not relieve the Consultant from its obligations under this 	Agreement.
The Consultant agrees, in carrying out this Agreement, to comply 	with:
All relevant legislation of the Commonwealth particularly the Crimes Act 1914, Racial Discrimination Act 1975, Sex Discrimination Act 1984 and Disability Discrimination Act 1992), or of any State, Territory or local authority; 
Any obligations it has under the Affirmative Action (Equal Employment Opportunity for Women) Act 1986; 
Any obligation it has under the Occupational Health and 	Safety Act legislation; and

The Consultant agrees, for so long as any obligations remain in connection with this Agreement:
To effect and maintain all necessary insurance including but not limited to Workers Compensation, Professional Indemnity and Public Liability for all the Consultant's obligations under this Agreement, including those which survive the expiration or termination of this Agreement; and
Upon request, provide proof of insurance acceptable to the Principal.
The Consultant warrants that at the date of this Agreement no conflict with the interests of the Principal exists or is likely to arise in the performance of the Services.
Immediately upon becoming aware of the existence, or possibility of a conflict of interest arising the Consultant must advise the Principal in writing, make full disclosure of all relevant information relating to the conflict and take such steps as the Principal may reasonably require to resolve or otherwise deal with the conflict
If the Consultant does not notify the Principal or is unable or unwilling to resolve or deal with the conflict as required, the Principal may terminate this Agreement in accordance with the provisions of clause 9.
The Consultant agrees that it will not, and will use its best endeavours to ensure that any officer, employee, agent or subcontractor of the Consultant does not, engage in any activity or 		obtain any interest during the course of this Agreement that is likely 		to conflict with or restrict the Consultant in providing the Services 		to the Principal fairly and independently.
The Consultant must upon reasonable notice from the Principal provide to the Principal access to the premises occupied by the Consultant where the Services are being performed in order for the Principal to inspect, discuss or assess the provision of Services.
The Consultant warrants that its relationship to the Principal is one of an independent consultant providing services to the Principal and as such; 
The Consultant will not be entitled to make any claim upon the Principal in respect of any workers compensation, superannuation, sickness, accident, holiday, long service leave payments or any other entitlements; and
The Consultant will indemnify the Principal against any such liability loss, demand or claim if the Consultant is for any reason or by any person deemed to be an employee of the Principal such that the Principal becomes liable to pay monies (including PAYE tax) on behalf of the Consultant.
This clause applies only where the Consultant deals with personal information for the purpose of providing the Services under this   Agreement.
The Consultant acknowledges that it is a 'contracted service provider' within the meaning of section 6 of the Privacy Act 1988 (the Privacy Act), and agrees in respect of the provision of services under this Agreement:
Not to do any act or engage in any practice that would breach an Information Privacy Principle (IPP) contained in section 14 of the Privacy Act, which if done or engaged in by the Principal would be a breach of that IPP;
To notify individuals whose personal information the Consultant holds, that complaints about acts or practices of the Consultant may be investigated by the Privacy Commissioner who has power to award compensation against the Consultant in appropriate circumstances;
To carry out and discharge the obligations contained in the IPPs as if it were an agency under that Act, including to comply with the requirements relating to collection, storage, access, alteration, use and disclosure of personal information, and in particular:
As required by IPP 5 - to provide information about the records containing personal information which the Consultant holds; and
As required by IPPs 6 and 7 - to allow individuals to access and amend their own personal information except where the Consultant is authorised or required by law to refuse this.
Not to use or disclose personal information or engage in an act
or practice that would breach section 16F (direct marketing), a NPP (particularly NPPs 7 to 10) or an approved privacy code (APC), where that section, NPP or APC is applicable to the 
Consultant, unless:
In the case of section 16F - the use or disclosure is necessary, directly or indirectly, to discharge an obligation under this Agreement; or
In the case of a NPP or an APC - except where the activity or practice is engaged in for the purpose of discharging, directly or indirectly, an obligation under clause 3.13 of this Agreement, and the activity or practice is authorised by clause 3.13 of this Agreement, which is inconsistent with the NPP or APC.
To disclose in writing to any person who asks, the content of the provisions of this Agreement (if any) that is inconsistent
with a NPP or an APC binding a party to this Agreement;
To immediately notify the Principal if the Consultant becomes aware of a breach or possible breach of any of the obligations contained in this clause 3.13 whether by the Consultant or any sub-contractor;
To comply with any directions, guidelines, determinations or recommendations relating to the matters set out in the Schedule at Annexure 1 of this Agreement to the extent that they are not inconsistent with the requirements of this clause; and
To ensure that any employee of the Consultant who is required to deal with personal information for the purposes of this Agreement is made aware of the obligations of the Consultant set out in this clause 3.13.
The Consultant agrees to ensure that any sub-contract entered into for the purpose of fulfilling its obligations under this Agreement contains provisions to ensure that the sub-contractor has the same awareness and responsibilities as the Consultant has under this clause, including the requirement in relation to sub-contracts.
The Consultant agrees to indemnify the Principal in respect of any loss, liability or expense suffered or incurred by the Principal, which arises directly, or indirectly from a breach of any of the obligations of the Consultant under this clause 3.13, or a sub-contractor under the sub-contract provisions referred to in sub-clause 3.13(c).
In this clause 3.13, the terms 'agency', 'approved privacy code' (APC), 'Information Privacy Principles' (IPPs), and 'National Privacy Principles' (NPPs) have the same meaning as they have in section 6 of the Privacy Act.
The provisions of this clause 3.13 survive termination or expiration of this Agreement.
The Principal will as soon as practicable, or as required by this 	Agreement:
Make available to the Consultant all relevant instructions, information, documentation or data or any other material as required for the performance of the Services; and
Provide assistance to the Consultant as reasonably required so that 	the Consultant may competently perform its duties under this 	Agreement;

The Principal will as soon as practicable, or as required by this Agreement perform the services set out in  Item 3 of the Schedule..
The Principal will pay the Consultant the fees in accordance with  Item 4 of the Schedule subject to the conditions of this Agreement.
The Principal will only reimburse the Consultant any reasonable costs, expenses, fees or charges incurred by the Consultant where the Consultant has obtained the Principal's prior written approval to incur such costs, expenses, fees or charges.
At the times specified in the Schedule, the Consultant must lodge with the Principal an invoice (Tax Invoice if GST registered) claim for the Services performed (and for approved reimbursable expenses, if any, incurred) during that period.
The Principal will make a payment within 7 (seven) days following receipt of the invoice (Tax Invoice if GST registered)  

The Principal may request (in writing) the Consultant to vary the Services, provided the variation is within the general scope of the Services.
Fees for the varied Services will be as agreed in writing between the parties at the rate specified in Item 6 of the Schedule.
All rights in the Contract Material vests or will vest in the Principal.
Clause 8.1(a) does not affect the ownership of Intellectual Property in any Existing Material which is specified in Item 7 of the Schedule, but the Consultant grants to the Principal a permanent, irrevocable, royalty-free, world-wide, non-exclusive licence (including a right of sub-licence) to use, reproduce, adapt and exploit any such Existing Material in conjunction with the other Contract Material
If requested by the Principal, the Consultant agrees to bring into existence, sign, execute or otherwise deal with any document, which may be necessary or desirable to give effect to this clause 8.
The Consultant warrants that it is entitled, or will be entitled at the relevant time, to deal with the Intellectual Property in the Contract Material and the Existing Material in the manner provided for in this clause 8.
As soon as practicable after the expiration or earlier termination of this Agreement, the Consultant must deliver to the Principal all Contract Material and all the Principal's Materials.
Subject to Clause 3.6, Clause 8.2 (a) does not operate to prevent the Consultant from keeping a bona fide copy of the Contract Material for its own records.
Termination by the Principal other than for Default by the 	Consultant
The Principal may terminate the whole or any part of this Agreement or reduce the scope of the Services at any time, by written notice addressed to the Consultant.
Upon receipt of a notice of termination or reduction the Consultant 	agrees to:
Stop work as specified in the notice;
Take all available steps to minimise loss resulting from that 		termination and to protect the Principal's Material and 			Contract Material; and
Continue work on any part of the Services not affected by the 		notice.
Where there has been a termination under clause 9.1(a), the 	Principal will be liable only for:
Payments under clause 5 for services rendered before the 			effective date of termination; and
Reasonable costs incurred by the Consultant and directly 			attributable to the termination.
Where there has been a reduction in the scope of the Services, the Principal's liability to pay fees or meet costs under Clause 5 or provide Services under clause 4 will, unless there is agreement in writing to the contrary, abate in accordance with the reduction in the Services.
The Principal will not be liable to pay compensation under clause 9.1(c)(ii).
The Consultant will not be entitled to compensation for loss of 	prospective profits.
Becomes bankrupt, or insolvent, or enters into a scheme or 	arrangement with its creditors; or
Being a corporation, comes under one of the forms of external administration referred to in Chapter 5 of the Corporations Act 2001, or an order is made for the purpose of placing the corporation under external administration; or
Fails to satisfy any of its obligations under the Agreement the 	Principal may:
In the case of the default specified in Clause 9.2(a) and (b) forthwith terminate this Agreement by written notice addressed to the Consultant, and
In the case of any other default, terminate this Agreement by written notice addressed to the Consultant if the Consultant fails to remedy the default to the satisfaction of the Principal within 14 days from the date of service of a notice by the Principal on the Consultant specifying the relevant default.
If the Principal commits a substantial breach of this Agreement,
the Consultant may forthwith terminate this Agreement by written notice addressed to the Principal if the Principal fails to remedy the default within 14 days from the service of a notice by the Consultant specifying the relevant breach.
Termination of this Agreement by either party is without prejudice to any accrued rights or remedies of either party under this Agreement or otherwise at law or in equity.
Upon termination pursuant to Clause 9.2, the Consultant will not be entitled to receive or claim any compensation or payment in lieu of notice or damages for or in respect of or by reason of the termination but the Consultant will be entitled to receive and the Principal will pay to the Consultant upon receipt of an invoice (Tax Invoice if GST registered) the unpaid balance due to the Consultant under this Agreement at the date of termination.
Subject to Clause 10 (b) the Consultant agrees to indemnify the Principal from and against any:
Liability incurred by the Principal;
Loss of or damage to property of the Principal; or 
Loss or expense incurred by the Principal in dealing with any claim against it including legal costs and expenses on a solicitor/own client basis and the cost of time spent, resources used or disbursements paid by the Principal, arising from:
Any negligent or wilful act or omission by the Consultant, its officers, employees, agents or subcontractors in connection with this Agreement;
Any breach by the Consultant of its obligations or 			warranties under this Agreement;
Any improper use or improper disclosure by the Consultant, its officers, employees, agents or subcontractors of information held or controlled in connection with this Agreement; or
The use by the Principal of the Contract Material,
irrespective of whether there was fault on the part of the person whose conduct gave rise to that liability, loss or damage, or loss or expense.
The Consultant's liability to indemnify the Principal under clause 10(a) will be reduced proportionately to the extent that any negligent or wilful act or omission of the Principal contributed to the relevant liability, loss or damage, or loss or expense.
The right of the Principal to be indemnified under this clause 10 is in addition to, and not exclusive of, any other right, power or remedy provided by law, but the Principal is not entitled to be compensated in excess of the amount of the relevant liability, loss or damage, or loss or expense.
In this clause 10, "Principal" includes officers, employees and 	agents of the Principal.
This clause 10 will survive the expiration or termination of this 	Agreement.
The parties agree that any dispute arising during the course of this 	Agreement will be dealt with as follows:
First, the party claiming that there is a dispute will send to the 		other a notice setting out the nature of the dispute;
Secondly, the parties will try to resolve the dispute by direct negotiation, including by referring the matter to persons who may have authority to intervene and direct some form of resolution;
Thirdly, the parties have 10 business days from the sending of the notice to reach a resolution or to agree that the dispute will be submitted to mediation or some other form of alternative dispute resolution procedure; and
Lastly, if:
There is no resolution or agreement; or
There is a submission to mediation or some other form of alternative dispute resolution procedure, but there is no resolution within 15 business days of the submission, or such extended time as the parties may agree in writing before the expiration of the 15 business days,
Then, either party may commence legal proceedings.
Despite the existence of a dispute, the Consultant will (unless 		requested in writing not to do so) continue to perform the Services.
This clause 11 does not apply to:
Action by either party under or purportedly under clause 9.2, 	or
Action by the Principal under or purportedly under clause 5 or 	clause 9.1;
Nor does it preclude either party from commencing legal proceedings for urgent interlocutory relief.
The Consultant agrees that when using the Principal's premises or facilities for the purposes of the Consultancy Services, it will comply with all reasonable directions and procedures relating to occupational health, safety and security in operation at those premises or in regard to those facilities (including the Principal's smoke-free work-place policy) whether specifically drawn to the attention of the Consultant or as might reasonably be inferred from the circumstances.
Is reconstituted, renamed or replaced or if its powers or functions are transferred to another entity, then this Agreement is deemed to refer to that new entity; or
Ceases to exist, then this Agreement is deemed to refer to that entity 	which serves substantially the same purpose or object as the 	Principal.
This Agreement will be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws applicable to the State of New South Wales.
Any clause of this Agreement, which is invalid, may be severed from this Agreement without affecting the validity of the remaining provisions of this Agreement.
Any waiver by either party of a right under this Agreement will not amount to a waiver of a future right under this Agreement.
Any special conditions are set out in Item  8 of the Schedule, and are incorporated in this Agreement as if set out herein
The address of the parties for the purposes of giving any notice shall be set out in item 6 of the Schedule or as may from time to time be specified in writing between the parties.
The Client wishes to engage the University to provide the services and the University has agreed to perform the services.
This Agreement sets out the rights and obligations of each Party in relation to the services

This Agreement will begin on the Start Date and will continue for the Term set out in Item 2 of Schedule 1.
The University will perform the Services and provide the Deliverables by the date specified in Item 4 of Schedule 1.
The Services must be performed in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, including by the Specified Personnel, if any are specified.
Subject to clause 3.2, the University may sub-contract the performance of any part of the Services with the prior written consent of the Client, not be unreasonably withheld.
The Client shall make payments to the University for the Services as set out in Item 5 of Schedule 1.
Payments must be made within thirty (30) days of receipt by the Client of a valid invoice from the University for the amount owing, as specified in Item 5 of Schedule 1.
When receiving Confidential Information, the Receiving Party must:
keep all Confidential Information of the Disclosing Party confidential, unless strictly required otherwise by law;
limit access to those of its personnel reasonably requiring the Confidential Information on a strictly need to know basis;
not use any Confidential Information in any way other than for the Services or as otherwise contemplated by this Agreement without the prior written permission of the Disclosing Party; and
ensure that all personnel to whom Confidential Information is disclosed are legally bound under the terms and conditions of their employment agreements or otherwise, to keep the Confidential Information confidential and not to use the Confidential Information except in relation to the subject matter of this Agreement.
Confidential Information excludes, or as the case requires, ceases to include information, which is, or becomes:
available to the public at or after the date of its disclosure to the Receiving Party otherwise than through the default of the Receiving Party;
properly in the possession of the Receiving Party otherwise than by prior confidential disclosure from the Disclosing Party; 
demonstrated by the Receiving Party to be independently developed by an employee or agent of the Receiving Party having no knowledge of such information which is the subject of the disclosure.
At the termination or expiration of this Agreement and upon the written request of the Disclosing Party, the Receiving Party must return to the Disclosing Party any documents originating from the Disclosing Party which embody Confidential Information and must not keep any copies in any form.
Each Party
agrees that it will not have any claim, ownership or interest in the other Party's Background Intellectual Property or Improvements in such Background Intellectual Property;
grants the other Party a non-exclusive, royalty-free licence for the use of any Background Intellectual Property made available by the granting Party for the purpose of carrying out the Services; and
agrees that if Background Intellectual Property which has been made available pursuant to sub-clause (b) is required for the Commercialisation of the Services it must be made available on commercial terms to be negotiated in good faith by the Parties.
If the Parties cannot reach agreement on commercial terms, the matter must be dealt with in accordance with clause 11 [Dispute Resolution].
Subject to clause 6.3, the rights to all Deliverables, including the Intellectual Property created, discovered or coming into existence as a result of or arising out of the Deliverables shall be the property of and vested in the Client.
Ownership or other rights in the Deliverables will not pass to the Client if payment is not made in accordance with clause 4 of this Agreement.
The Client agrees that, subject to clause 5 of this Agreement, the University may use the Deliverables and all Intellectual Property created pursuant to this Agreement for its internal research and scholastic endeavours, but not for commercialisation.
The University agrees that it will obtain the Client's prior approval before submitting any manuscript or article relating to this Agreement for publication.
The University warrants that it will carry out the Services according to proper professional standards.
Except for the warranty in clause 8.1, the University does not make any warranties regarding the Services or the Deliverables.
All other warranties, including without limitation those of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose, or that the use of the Deliverables or any other materials created pursuant to this Agreement will not infringe any intellectual property rights of a third party, are excluded.
The Client uses the Deliverables at its own risk.
To the extent permitted by law, the University has no liability under this Agreement other than as set out in this clause 8.
Where liability cannot be excluded it is limited, at the University's option, to re-performing the Services or paying the Client the cost of having the services re-performed.
The cost to the University under this clause 8 shall not exceed the payment received by the University under this Agreement.
This Agreement may be terminated at any time with the consent of both Parties.
Either the Client or the University may terminate this Agreement:
if the other Party is in default of the terms and conditions of this Agreement and fails to remedy the default within twenty (20) Business Days after receiving Notice requiring the remedy of the default; or 
on giving ninety (90) days notice without cause.
Termination of this Agreement for whatever cause shall be without prejudice to any rights or obligations that have accrued or are owing prior to such termination, including but not limited to payments of money.
For the purposes of this clause 10, the value of taxable supply made by each Party under this Agreement is as follows:
unless expressly stated to the contrary, the consideration to be provided for any taxable supply made by one party to the other under this Agreement has been calculated without regard to, and is exclusive of, GST;
the consideration referred to in paragraph (a) shall be increased by the amount of any GST;
the Party receiving any payment for a taxable supply under this Agreement shall provide to the Party making a payment for a taxable supply a tax invoice in respect of that payment; and
the Party receiving any payment under this Agreement for a taxable supply shall do all things necessary (including, without limitation, registering with any required Government authority) to enable the party making a payment for a taxable supply to claim any credits or other benefits under the relevant law relating to GST.
A Party claiming that a dispute has arisen under this Agreement (Dispute) must notify the other Party giving written details of the Dispute.
The Parties agree to negotiate in good faith on a commercially realistic basis to resolve the Dispute and will refer resolution of the Dispute to officers within each Party who are authorised to hear the Dispute before commencing any legal proceedings in relation to the Dispute.
Any Dispute which cannot be settled under clause 11.1 within a reasonable time must be referred for determination by a person appointed for that purpose by the Parties and failing Agreement, appointed by the President of the Institute of Arbitrators and Mediators Australia (Victorian Division).
Any determination made under the above clause is binding on the Parties and the Commercial Arbitration Act 1984 (Vic) applies to the determination except to the extent otherwise agreed by the Parties.
Nothing in this clause 11 will prevent a Party from seeking interlocutory relief.
The Parties are independent contracting parties, and nothing in this Agreement shall make any Party the agent, partner or legal representative of the other Party for any purpose whatsoever, nor does it grant either Party any authority to assume or to create any obligation on behalf of or in the name of the other Party on any account whatsoever.
The laws that are applicable in Victoria, Australia govern this Agreement and each Party submits to the jurisdiction of the courts of that state and the courts of appeal therefrom.
Entire agreement.
This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement of the Parties with respect to its subject matter and supersedes all prior oral or written representations and agreements.
Amendment.
This Agreement may only be amended in writing signed by the parties.
Assignment.
A Party may not assign its rights or obligations arising under this Agreement without the prior written consent of the other Party.
Waiver.
A waiver by either Party of a breach of any provision of this Agreement does not constitute a waiver of any succeeding breach of the same or any other provision.
Severance.
If any provision or part provision of this Agreement is invalid or unenforceable, such provision shall be deemed deleted but only to the extent necessary and the remaining provisions of this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect.
Force Majeure.
The University will not be liable for the consequences of any delays or failure to carry out the Services or provide the Deliverables where such delay or failure is due to any event beyond the University's reasonable control, including without limitation, acts of God, fire, flood, accident, terrorism, strike and riot.
The last party to sign this Agreement must complete the date field on the first page


This Agreement will remain in effect for one of the two options below:
until the Services have been performed and the Deliverables have been provided to the Client by the date specified in Item 6 below; or 
for a period of INSERT THE NUMBER OF CALENDAR MONTHS calendar months commencing on and from the Start Date.
Date of delivery of Deliverables
The Deliverables will be provided by the University to the Client by the date(s) specified below:

Payment Schedule


Instalment No.
Date on which instalment is to be paid
Amount to be paid ($ AUD)

  
Total ($ AUD)
Inventory is not guaranteed by Stella and all inventory made available to Affiliate by Stella will be subject to availability.
Stella may make images, text and content available for use by Affiliates.
In relation thereto, Stella grants Affiliate a non-exclusive, revocable licence to use the images, text and content provided by Stella to Affiliate sole for the purpose of allowing the Affiliate to promote Stella properties on websites.
Affiliate may only use Stella images, text and content that Stella explicitly makes available to Affiliates as part of the Affiliate program.
Affiliate agrees not to use any other Stella Intellectual Property without the written permission of Stella.
In particular, Affiliate must not copy or use images, text and content from Stella websites or other third party websites.
In return for directing bookings to Stella sourced via the Affiliate's website, Affiliate will earn a commission from Stella.
Affiliate will not be entitled to a commission for cancellations or no-shows.
Commissions will be set by Stella in accordance with the Schedule 1 of this Affiliate Agreement or as made available on Stella's website.
Stella reserves the right to change the amount of commission paid to Affiliate at any time, on 14 days prior notice to Affiliate.
Commissions are earned by Affiliate once the booking has checked out and the booking is paid in full.
If all or part of a payment is refunded to the customer, the Affiliate must refund the commission paid on the refunded amount.
Stella will pay Affiliate all commissions on a monthly basis once the commission earned by Affiliate exceeds the commission payment threshold as specified by Stella from time to time.
Affiliate must provide Stella with its tax file number or Australian business number.
Stella will issue Affiliate with a recipient created tax invoice for all commissions paid by Stella to Affiliate, within 14 days of the end of each month for which the Affiliate has reached the commission payment threshold.
All commission rates under this Affiliate Agreement and specified in the Commission Schedule provided by Stella from time to time are inclusive of GST.
Stella will under no circumstances be liable for any damages arising in connection with a failure to pay commissions due to a technical fault on Stella's reservation system.
In the event that a commission is mistakenly not paid in these circumstances, Stella agrees to pay the Affiliate for the commission due within a reasonable time after becoming aware of the mistake.
The Affiliate's referral website must not contain out-of-date, incorrect or misleading images, text or content.
Affiliate acknowledges that Stella websites contain the most up-to-date information available for Stella properties, and Affiliate should link to Stella websites for property information, rather than reproducing the content on the Affiliate's referral website.
Affiliate undertakes to:
wherever requested by Stella, provide to Stella a list of all referral websites used by Affiliate to market Stella properties;
include on the referral website a logo or tag line stating the name of the Affiliate and that website is a web referral website.
The logo and tagline must be prominently displayed in such a way that there is no confusion that the referral website belongs to Affiliate and not to Stella;
only market Stella properties in connection with general referral websites such as general travel, accommodation or location specific websites and not on websites designed to market a specific Stella property;
ensure that the referral website complies with all laws and regulations in force and does not violate or infringe the rights of any third party;
ensure that the referral website conforms with any Stella use or style guides, if and as provided by Stella from time to time;
use its own website templates for the referral website; and
be solely responsible for the development, operation and maintenance of the referral website, as well as any material contained on such website.
Affiliate will be solely responsible for the technical operation of Affiliate's systems as well as the accuracy and appropriateness of communications with customers.
During the term of this Affiliate Agreement and after termination, Affiliate must not do any of the following:
copy the look and feel of any Stella website;
in any way represent or create the impression that the referral website is an official Stella website or is a website sponsored or controlled by Stella;
use any language which may mislead a user to believe that they are:
dealing directly with Stella (e.g.
referring to a Stella property as "our apartments");
dealing with a central reservation service for a Stella property; or
dealing with the official booking agent for a Stella property.
engage in conduct that is illegal, misleading or deceptive;
register or use domain names or sub-domain names which contain, or which are deceptively similar to, Stella trade marks or property names;
include on the referral website information which (or have a direct link to sites that contain information which) might be in any way detrimental to Stella's brands, image or reputation;
use Stella trade marks and logos other than those expressly approved for the Affiliate's use by Stella;
illegally copy or reproduce Stella content including photographs, logos and written details of Stella properties other than those expressly approved for the Affiliate's use by Stella;
enter into any sub-affiliate or junior affiliate arrangements in relation to Stella properties without the prior written consent of Stella;
operate call centres to take bookings for Stella properties;
purchase or use any search engine keywords or metatags that include Stella property names or trade marks, or anything deceptively similar thereto;
place misleading content on blogs or opinion websites, or use blogs for the purpose of driving traffic to Affiliate's website;
create websites that have multiple pages about a single Stella property, without Stella's prior consent; or 
use any predatory advertising methods in the promotion of Stella properties.
Predatory includes any method that creates or overlays links or banners on web sites, spawns browser windows, or any other method invented to improperly generate traffic.
Should Affiliate undertake any of the prohibited activities listed in clause 21 above, Stella reserves the right to suspend commission payment to Affiliate, and may terminate this Affiliate Agreement immediately upon notice to Affiliate.
Subject to clauses 8 and 24, Stella will provide Affiliate with the ability to access and market a range of Stella inventory as made available by Stella from time to time, as an affiliate of Stella.
This may include BreakFree, Mantra, Peppers and any additional brand room inventory as made available on the Stella Central Reservations system from time to time as well as other properties or property group which are owned, managed or controlled by Stella.
Stella may vary the following at any time, at its complete discretion:
the properties and room types which are available to be marketed by Affiliate; 
the availability periods for certain properties and room types; and
room rates.
Stella does not have an obligation to notify Affiliate of any variations made in accordance with clause 24, and such changes shall be effective immediately upon being updated in the Stella computer system.
Stella will provide a suitable working Affiliate program website with access to real time reports online.
Stella will provide support as determined by Stella.
Stella may modify the terms of this Affiliate Agreement, by providing Affiliate with 30 days notice.
This Affiliate Agreement commences when: 
signed by both parties; or 
when Affiliate accepts this agreement by clicking "I agree" in relation hereto or placing its electronic signature at the bottom of the registration form,
and continues indefinitely unless terminated by either party by providing 14 days written notice to the other party.
Following termination, Affiliate:
must cease using all Stella Intellectual Property; and
must, within 24 hours of termination, remove any Stella links or Stella Intellectual Property from the referral website.
If this Affiliate Agreement is terminated by Stella without cause, Stella will pay to Affiliate any commission earned by Affiliate prior to termination, unless the amount of commission is less than the commission payment threshold, in which case the amount owing will be forfeited.
If this Affiliate Agreement is terminated by Stella for breach, or if Affiliate terminates this Affiliate Agreement without cause, Stella will not pay any further commissions earned by Affiliate.
The rights and obligations of the parties under clauses 21, 30, 31, 32, 34 and 36 survive termination or expiration of this Affiliate Agreement.
Affiliate shall at all times indemnify and hold harmless Stella and its officers, employees and agents from any and all costs, losses, damages, liabilities, judgments and expenses (including legal costs and expenses on a full indemnity basis) or liability reasonably incurred or suffered by any of those indemnified in each case arising out of or relating to:
the development, operation, maintenance and contents of the referral website;
a breach by Affiliate of its obligations under this Affiliate Agreement; and
any wilful, unlawful or negligent act or omission of Affiliate.
Where Stella is required or permitted to give Affiliate information (eg a notice) under this Affiliate Agreement, Stella may do so in any way, including by:
giving Affiliate the information by telephone, facsimile, mail or email using the contact details provided by the Affiliate to Stella; or
making the information available on Stella's website.
The terms of this Affiliate Agreement are confidential and must not be disclosed by Affiliate to any other person.
Stella may assign its rights and obligations under this Affiliate Agreement to a related body corporate of Stella as that term is defined in the Corporations Act 2001 (Cwlth).
Stella may permit a related body corporate to carry out obligations of Stella herein.
Affiliate may not assign this Affiliate Agreement to any third party without Stella's prior consent.
If control, ownership or management of Affiliate changes significantly, Stella may terminate this Affiliate Agreement by giving notice to Affiliate, such notice being effective immediately.
This Affiliate Agreement constitutes the entire agreement of the parties and supersedes all previous agreements, negotiations, representations and warranties (whether written or oral) and understandings between the parties.
This Affiliate Agreement may consist of a number of copies, each signed by one or more parties to this Affiliate Agreement.
If so, the signed copies are treated as making up the one document.
Each party acknowledges that in entering into this Affiliate Agreement it has not relied on any representations or warranties about its subject matter except as expressly provided for in the written terms of this Affiliate Agreement.
If any provision of this Affiliate Agreement is held invalid, illegal or unenforceable in a jurisdiction it is severed for that jurisdiction.
The remainder of this Affiliate Agreement has full force and effect and the validity or enforceability of that provision in any other jurisdiction is not affected.
Each party agrees, at its own expense, to do anything the other party reasonably asks (such as obtaining consents, signing and producing documents and getting documents completed and signed) in order to effectuate the purposes or terms of this Affiliate Agreement.
This Affiliate Agreement is governed by the law in force in the State of Queensland, Australia.
Each party submits to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of the courts of Queensland.
The Vendor appoints the Broker as his agent to sell the Boat for the GROSS sum of $        , less costs outlined in Clause 4, in cleared funds by cash or bank cheque or telegraphic transfer less bank charges with delivery and possession of the                                                      Boat at      .
The Vendor may agree to accept a different sum and accept different terms confirmed in writing or by email.
The Vendor appoints the Broker -  (Place cross in one box only)
act as the Vendor's exclusive agent for the sale of the Boat for 3 months from the date of this agreement.
At the end of which period the Broker is the Vendor's non-exclusive agent.
Any sale effected by the Vendor within the period of this agreement to any Purchaser introduced by the Vendor of the Boat, then any such sale shall be deemed to be a sale effected by the Broker, then the Vendor shall pay to the Broker at 50% of the fee that the Broker would have received had the Broker effected the sale.
Any sale effected by the Vendor within a period of three months after the expiration of this agreement to any Purchaser introduced by the Broker to the Vendor or Boat, then any such sale shall be deemed to be a sale effected by the Broker, and the provisions of Clause 4 hereof shall apply and the Vendor shall pay to the Broker a fee as identical to the fee that the Broker would have received had the Broker effected the sale;
OR
As the Vendor's sole agent for the sale of the Boat for 3 months from the date of this agreement with the Vendor reserving the right to sell the Boat directly to a buyer not introduced by the Broker at the end of which period the Broker is the Vendor's non-exclusive agent;
OR
As the Vendor's non-exclusive agent for the sale of the Boat.
The Vendor warrants that, except for any rights of a person or corporation disclosed in this clause,
the Boat is free from all encumbrance and other interests;
the Boat is wholly owned by the Vendor;
the Vendor has complete unfettered power to sell the Boat; 
upon payment of the sale price in full the Vendor will provide a discharge from the person or        corporation having rights over the Boat as disclosed in this clause;
the Boat shall be insured by the Owner while the Boat is for sale;
the Vendor shall keep the Broker safe and indemnified against all claims made against him by any persons both now and in the future from any liability that may arise from any claim or claims whatsoever;
the Vendor must inform the broker when the Boat is not available;
that the broker is not responsible for mechanical, structural, or any component failure of the Boat while it is under the Broker's control;
that the Boat is registered with the appropriate authorities and has a Boat Code;
to pay the brokerage commissions, costs and disbursements as outlined in Clause;
Name and address of other person or corporation having rights over the Boat and description of those rights
     
The Vendor grants the Broker, its servants or agents permission to:
Board the Boat for purposes of inspection, agreed maintenance, cleaning, or any such works as agreed by Vendor.
demonstrate the Boat by appointment to any inquiring purchaser, and in this regard the owner shall make available to the Broker the Boat on demand.
Operate the engine(s), electronics and gear for demonstration purposes.
Motor or sail the Boat for demonstration purposes.
Take such other reasonable steps in relation to the Boat as may in the Broker's opinion be necessary to further the prospective sale of the Boat.
Advertise and promote the sale of the Boat and at all times utilise best efforts to effect the sale of the Boat.
All advertisements will mention PowerSail Marine.
The Broker is not liable for any damage or mechanical or other failure to the Boat which occurs or becomes apparent while the Boat is under the Broker's control, nor for the care of or custody of the Boat.
The Vendor must pay the broker commission, plus costs outlined in Clause 4.2 below, on the sale price.
Forthwith on the completion of the sale to a Purchaser introduced by the Broker.
OR
If the Vendor sells the Boat during the exclusive period;
OR
Forthwith upon the Broker procuring a Contract for sale of the Boat which is not completed and where the deposit paid under the Contract is forfeited to the Vendor.
The B
The Contributor at the request of the Manager has agreed from time to time in its discretion to provide the Custodian with copies of the Contributor's privately funded airborne geophysical datasets ("AGS Datasets") to assist in the establishment of a centralised airborne geophysical database ("MAGNet Database") to be accessible to purchasers under the terms and conditions (including the price) set forth in this Agreement.
The Manager at the request of the Custodian and with the knowledge and agreement of the Contributor shall be responsible for the establishment of MAGNet Database and the ongoing management of the MAGNet Database and the Manager will take all reasonable steps to gather other available privately-funded airborne geophysical data for inclusion in the MAGNet Database and to re-process, compile, catalogue and display as images and maps all such data and to make reprocessed data available for sale and to prepare a comprehensive description of each data set.
The Contributor, the Custodian and the Manager all acknowledge that the AGS Datasets will be held by the Custodian in trust for the Contributor but subject always to the terms of this Agreement.
Delivery of AGS Datasets
At any time, from time to time, after the date of this Agreement, the Contributor may provide the Custodian with the AGS Datasets.
The data delivery shall conform where possible to the specification outlined in Attachment 3.
Contribution of the survey data will be on a voluntary, survey-by-survey basis, and may at the discretion of the Contributor include currently confidential data.
All survey data delivered to the Custodian will be accompanied by a statement of ownership in the form set out in Attachment 4.
The manager shall incorporate all AGS Datasets into the MAGNet Database, unless the contributor otherwise agrees in writing..
The Contributor will not sell its own AGS Datasets through any other organised Database facility the duration of this Agreement.
This clause shall not preclude the Contributor from providing copies of its own Datasets to any other participant in the Robe River Iron Associates Joint Venture or to any Related body Corporate (as the term is defined in the Corporations Law) or to other companies for the purposes of negotiating bona fides joint venture agreements with these companies.
The Contributor shall indemnify and keep indemnified the Custodian and the Manager and each of them against any actions, suits, claims, demands, proceedings, losses and all liability for special, incidental, or consequential damages (including loss of profit) incurred by them should it be established that the Contributor is not the owner of the intellectual property in the AGS Datasets.
The parties acknowledge and agree that the Contributor makes no representations and gives no warranty whatsoever relating to the accuracy, completeness or correctness of any of the AGS Datasets and (without limitation) does not warrant that:
the Datasets are or will be free from error
the Datasets are or will be suitable for the Manager's purpose.
The Contributor shall have no liability to the manager or the Custodian for or in respect of any loss or damage to which may be suffered or incurred or otherwise arise out of or in connection with the use or the provision of the AGS Datasets or any error, omission, inaccuracy or fault in the Datasets and the manager and the Custodian release the Contributor from any such liabilty which but for this clause may have otherwise existed or arisen.
The Contributor grants to the Manager an exclusive licence:-

to use the AGS Datasets for the purpose of generating derived products including without limitation, digital profile data, gridded data, image data maps and reports for sale to purchasers (the "Derived Products") on the condition that the Derived Products will be added to and form part of the AGS Database.
Full particulars of  Derived Products generated from the AGS Datasets will be notified by the Manager to the Contributor as soon as reasonably practical after their completion.
to sell copies of the AGS Datasets to third parties ("purchasers")
to sell Derived Products to third parties who have purchased copies of the AGS Datasets from which those Derived Products have been generated.
The Contributor warrants that it has the requisite legal capacity to grant such an exclusive licence.
All sales by the Manager pursuant to paragraphs (b) and (c) above shall be made as the Manager as principal and on terms and conditions under which the Contributor is satisfied (in its discretion) that no liability may attach directly or indirectly to the Contributor.
Full particulars of any sale by the Manager pursuant to paragraph (b) above, including the terms and conditions of the sale, shall be notified by the Manager to the Contributor as soon as reasonably practicable after the date of sale.
The copyrights of all products derived from the MAGNet Database during the terms of this Agreement will remain solely with the Manager the earlier of the date of termination of this Agreement and until midnight on 31 December 2100.
The Manager will for the benefit of the Contributor and the Manager at the Manager's own cost:-
perform the data processing, presentation and management tasks outlined in Attachment 1 on the AGS Datasets.
sell data and derived products from the MAGNet Database at the prescribed rate set out in Attachment 2 and generally promote the MAGNet Database to the mineral exploration industry.
The manager shall not in any promotional or sales activity refer to the Contributor or this Agreement unless on each occasion reference is to be made, the prior written consent of the Contributor is obtained.
manage the sale of data and products derived from the MAGNet Database, and 
collect payment from the sale of data and products derived from the MAGNet Database, and
account quarterly to the Contributor for the moneys collected from sales, and

pay royalties to the Contributor quarterly calculated in the manner prescribed in Attachment 2.
Supervision and the Provision of Services

take responsibility for the overall supervision of the establishment of the MAGNet Database and performance of MAGNet Database as a commercial enterprise.
To this end, the Manager will at its expense provide:-
All necessary computer processing, duplicating, printing, office accommodation and other facilities for the project.
Those persons named in Attachment 5 or such other persons nominated by the Manager from time to time of equal standing to supervise the establishment and the working of the MAGNet Database and the marketing of data out of the MAGNet Database.
Suitably qualified geophysicists and geophysical data processing staff.
Consultants and other technical staff for digitising maps and secretarial staff as and when needed.
use its best endeavours to ensure the accuracy of the work performed by the Manager under this Agreement without warranting that:-
its work will be without error, and
it will be responsible for any loss resulting from any error.
provide the Contributor, at least half yearly, with an index of the airborne geophysical datasets held in the MAGNet Database.
use its best endeavour to broaden the information of the MAGNet Database by adding to the MAGNet Database, where allowed by law, open-file data held by or on behalf of the various State Governments in Australia.
The Contributor shall pay the cost of shipping the AGS Datasets to the Manager and the Contributor shall bear the risk of loss or damage to such data until received by the Manager.
The Contributor shall provide the Manager with "COPIES ONLY" of the AGS Datasets and shall notify the Manager's collection centre (see Attachment 3) before the AGS Datasets are dispatched.
It is for the Contributor to ensure that no irreplaceable AGS Datasets are dispatched without the prior agreement of the Manager and without the appropriate insurance cover first being taken out by the Contributor.
The Manager shall use due care in the handling and the storage of the AGS Datasets provided by the Contributor to the Manager and shall take  all reasonable steps to preserve that data by copying that data on media suitable for long-term storage.
The Manager shall exercise due care of the Contributor's AGS Datasets whilst they are in the Manager's possession and shall take reasonable steps to preserve the data and in the absence of wilful negligence neither the Custodian or the Manager will be liable for loss, theft, damage or destruction of that data.
Subject to the licence granted to the Manager by the Contributor the AGS Datasets shall at all times remain the property of the Contributor.
Subject to the payment of royalties to the Contributor products derived from the AGS Datasets shall be and shall remain the sole property of the Manager for the duration of this Agreement.
The Custodian shall have no claim to any royalty or any fee in relation to its custodial role under this Agreement on the understanding that the Manager will honour all obligations imposed on the Manager under this Agreement.
The Manager is specifically authorised by this Agreement to use the AGS Datasets and such use will not constitute a breach of right of the Contributor in the AGS Datasets or otherwise.
Any aeromagnetic data submitted in digital format by the Contributor may be used by the Manager in the provision of digital data products or map products.
Location of flight lines along which data sets are collected will be treated as non-confidential.
The Manager warrants that it will use the AGS Datasets for those purposes specifically authorised by this Agreement and not otherwise.
The Manager shall at the request of the Contributor deliver to the Contributor the irrevocable undertaking of both its consultants, Geoimage Pty Ltd ACN 010 840 294 and Pitt Research Pty Ltd ACN 070 275 179 to use the AGS Datasets for no purpose other than that envisaged by this Agreement.
Unless otherwise provided in this Agreement, purchasers shall be permitted to use all final products for their internal use only, in any way they so wish.
Nothing in this Agreement shall prevent disclosure by either the Contributor or by any purchaser when required by law or when disclosure is made to a data processing centre or professional consultant retained by such a party, provided that such centre or consultant undertakes in writing to keep the information strictly confidential.
No party to this Agreement shall assign, mortgage or otherwise deal with or encumber its right and entitlement under this Agreement without the written consent of the other Parties to the Agreement.
All notices which are required to be given under the Agreement shall be in writing and shall be:
delivered to the other party personally; or
sent by facsimile to the facsimile number of the other party, in which case notice shall be deemed to have been received on the receipt of confirmation from the answering machine; or 
sent by electronic mail embedded or as an attachment, in which case notice shall be deemed to have been received on confirmation from the mail server.
forwarded by registered mail to the address of the other party, in which case notice shall be deemed to have been received 48 hours after it was posted.
Addresses and facsimile numbers of the Parties to the Agreement, shall be as specified in Attachment 5, or as otherwise notified in writing during the currency of the Agreement.
The Contributor shall have the right by giving 28 days notice in writing to terminate the licence granted to the Manager under this Agreement should the Manager fail:-

to pay royalties by the due date, or

to report as required

or should the Manager otherwise breach any material obligation on its part to be performed under the Agreement.
The Contributor may in any event terminate the licence granted to the Manager by this Agreement and this Agreement at any time, with or without cause, by giving two months notice in writing to the Manager and the Custodian.
The Manager will have the right to terminate this Agreement if:
the granting of the licence to the Manager under this Agreement  breaches any intellectual property rights of a third party; or
the Manager in the exercise of its absolute discretion forms the view that the establishment and operation of the MAGNet Database is no longer commercially viable but only after the Manager shall have given the Contributor three (3) months notice of its intention to terminate the Agreement for this reason.
Should any Parties to this Agreement become insolvent and/or commit an act of bankruptcy then, the other Parties or anyone of them shall have the right to terminate this Agreement forthwith by notice in writing to the other Parties whereupon all the rights and entitlements of the Parties save and except for any accrued right and or entitlement shall be at an end.
The proper law of this Agreement is the law of the State of Western Australia and the rights of the parties in and to this Agreement and the construction and effect of each and every provision hereof shall be subject to those laws.
Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed as placing the parties in the relationship of partners or co-joint venturers or principal and agent

The Manager shall perform the following tasks on the multi-client datasets incorporated into the MAGNet Database.
These products shall be specific to each survey and shall include:


The final processed data will be stored on CD-ROM.
Two copies will be made and one copy will be stored off-site in a secure facility.
The physical storing of the data shall be determined from time to time by the Custodian in connection with the Manager and each contribution to the MAGNet Database

Issues of data quality relate to the original acquisition and processing of the survey, and are not the responsibility of the Manager.
A QA system will be devised to ensure data deliveries conform to industry standards, and to an agreed flat ASCII format.
No liability for data errors will be accepted by the database managers.
Purchasers of the data will sign a licence agreement to this effect at the time of sale.
Data and map products will be available for sale to the whole mineral exploration industry.
The sell rate and Royalty will be calculated as follows:-
Royalties will be payable on a quarterly basis, with payments being due on or before 31st March, 30th June, 30th September and 31st December.
A statement of data sold from the scheme, cross-referenced to survey details, will be issued quarterly on the 31st March, 30th June, 30 September and 31st December.
No entry fees or up-front payments are required from any purchaser.

The parties have agreed to trade via electronic means, in relation to agreements between Telstra and the Supplier, on the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
This Agreement relates to the interchange of data, not the various underlying commercial or contractual obligations of the parties, and is not a substitute for any individual contracts between the parties.
An electronic message of the type described in Schedule B clause 4 is sent, for the purposes of any related contract between the parties, if, and only if, it is validly sent under this Agreement.
Each party must inform the other of a digital certificate, or other electronic symbol, code or password that the other party may rely on to authenticate a Message or Acknowledgment.
Each party must ensure that the certificate, symbol, code or password is kept secure and confidential subject to limited access by authorised personnel.
A party receiving a Message  or Acknowledgment may rely on the authentication included in the Message or Acknowledgment under clause 4.1 as proof that it is duly sent on behalf of the other party.
A party must send an Acknowledgement of each Message before acting on it.
A Message sent by one party to the other will be deemed to have been sent by the first and received by the second party when the first party receives an Acknowledgement confirming receipt of the Message.
If a party does not receive an Acknowledgement of a Message within 2 Business Days of sending the Message, the party must notify the other and, unless the issue is resolved promptly,  transmit the content of the Message by alternative means.
If the first party does not comply with this clause, the first party will be deemed, for the purposes of clause  5.2, to have received an Acknowledgement within 2 Business Days.
Each party to a Message must maintain for a period of 7 years a record of the Message in the transmitted format and in a form from which it can readily be retrieved and visually inspected, and upon reasonable request must make the Message available to the other party for inspection.
Subject to clause 7.2, each party agrees to keep confidential the contents of a Message.
The obligations under 7.1 cease when (but only to the extent that) the Message or the information must, by law, be disclosed or has become public knowledge.
This Agreement may be terminated by mutual consent, and a party may also terminate this Agreement by giving at least 30 days' notice in writing to the other party specifying the effective date of termination.
Termination of this Agreement does not, of itself, effect a termination of any other agreement between the parties.
The parties may amend this Agreement by each executing a document setting out the amendment and specifying the date from which the amendment is to take effect.
The parties shall not dispute that a Message passing between them is "in writing" or a "document" merely on the grounds that the Message was transmitted electronically.
If a Message is authenticated in accordance with this agreement, neither party shall dispute that such Message has been "signed" by the party on whose behalf the Message appears to have been sent.
The parties  waive any rights to bring an action declaring the invalidity of a transaction concluded between themselves on the sole ground that the transaction took place by use of electronic means.
Each party shall provide and maintain, at its own expense, the hardware, software and services necessary to transmit and receive Messages in accordance with this Agreement, and shall conduct such tests as may be mutually agreed from time to time to establish and monitor the adequacy of such hardware, software and services for the purposes of this Agreement.
A party must not insert or activate, or permit a third party to insert or activate, in any Message or system, any virus, bomb, Trojan horse or computer programming code that would impair access to any part of the systems used to perform this agreement.
The parties must attempt in good faith to resolve through negotiation any dispute regarding this Agreement.
If not resolved within 14 days, the parties agree to attempt to resolve the matter by mediation using a mediator agreed upon in writing by the parties or, in the absence of such agreement, a mediator nominated in accordance with the Mediation Guidelines of the Australian Commercial Dispute Centre (ACDC).
If following mediation the dispute is not resolved, either party may commence legal proceedings relating to the dispute.
If there is any dispute between the parties as to the contents of a Message, and if:
the recipient has kept a copy of the Message;
the recipient has sent an Acknowledgement in respect of that Message to the  sender; and
the recipient has not altered the Message since it was received (the onus of proving any such alteration being on the sender), 
then the recipient's copy of the Message must be taken to be the correct version of the Message.
If the conditions set out in the preceding sentence are not satisfied, the sender's copy of the Message must be taken to be the correct version.
Except where otherwise prescribed by this Agreement, a notice, approval, consent or other communication ("Notice") in connection with this Agreement, must be:
in writing;
signed by a representative of the party giving the Notice; and
served on the other party by being left at, or sent by prepaid ordinary post (airmail if posted to or from a place outside Australia) or sent by facsimile to the address of the Party which is specified in Schedule B or if the addressee notifies another address then to that address.
A Notice takes effect from the time it is received unless a later time is specified in it.
A Notice is taken to be received:

in the case of a posted letter, on the third (seventh, if posted to or from a place outside Australia) day after posting; and
in the case of facsimile, on production of a transmission report by the machine from which the facsimile was sent which indicates that the facsimile was sent in its entirety to the facsimile number of the recipient.
This Agreement and the transactions contemplated by it will be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws in force in Victoria.
Each party irrevocably and unconditionally submits to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of the courts of the State of Victoria and courts of appeal from them for determining any dispute concerning this Agreement or the transactions contemplated by it.
Each party waives any right it has to object to an action being brought in those courts including, but not limited to, claiming that the action has been brought in an inconvenient forum or that those courts do not have jurisdiction.
Once each party has installed the necessary eCommerce software they will exchange relevant details to enable an electronic interchange to take place.
Test documents are to be produced and sent to the parties, indicating that the document is a test document only.
Both parties are to ensure that the data is being translated, interchanged and re-translated correctly in the agreed format before completing testing.
Once the parties agree that the electronic system has been successfully tested then the system shall be deemed as a production or "live" system.
Until then Messages will be of no legal effect.
Paper copies or other agreed medium, where they exist, will continue to be sent until their deletion is agreed by both parties.
If a party encounters any problem that could affect the other party or result in failure of a Message to be transmitted, and is un-recoverable, then the party with the problem will notify the other party within 24 hours.
The receiver will notify the sender via email, fax or telephone of any duplicate documents received.
If the electronic system is unavailable to any party then that party must notify the other with consideration to various options such as: revert to the previous paper-based system, suspend trading temporarily or use an alternative network.
Each party receiving a Message must provide an Acknowledgment to the sender.
An Acknowledgement must be in the format agreed and tested under Clause 1 above.
An Acknowledgement does not imply acceptance of the value of the data in the Message.
If a Message is 'lost' after being received, the recipient will ask its eCommerce provider (if any) to re-send the Message.
Only if this is not possible will they ask the sender to re-send the Message.
Each party shall develop and use security procedures as a prudent company would develop and use to ensure that all transmissions of Messages, equipment, and the network are secure from access not authorised by each party and to protect the business records and data contained therein from loss, alteration or destruction.
Each party shall, upon becoming aware of any breach of security or unauthorised use of transmission, immediately inform the other party, investigate the breach and report to the other party as to the outcome of the investigation.
The use of eCommerce shall be suspended until security has been re-established to the satisfaction of the parties.
The party responsible for the breach of security shall pay the costs of any legal proceedings against a person who has committed an act of unauthorised disclosure.
A party may, by notice in writing to the other party, nominate another entity as an eCommerce provider to perform some or all of its obligations under this Agreement.
The party remains responsible for performance of these obligations and for ensuring that the eCommerce Provider complies with applicable provisions of this Agreement.
Each party will bear its own costs of depositing outgoing documents and retrieving incoming documents.
In the event of any dispute which may arise as to whether a Message has been sent or received, it will be the responsibility of the sender to supply details of the transmission date and time that the Message was sent, the envelope and the date the transaction was acknowledged if applicable.
Both parties agree to assist in any joint investigation with their eCommerce provider if required to resolve these disputes.
Both parties agree to access their production system on each Business Day.
This schedule covers all operational information required with regard to the technical aspects of setting up and managing the electronic interchange between parties.
It is acknowledged that from time to time changes will need to be made to this schedule in order to reflect the current electronic trading relationship.
Any amendments should be in writing and signed by an authorised person from each party setting out the changes and specifying the date from which the amendment is to take effect.
Each party agrees to use the following documents: Purchase Orders, Remittance Advice s, Invoices  and Acknowledgments.
The format for these documents will be as follows  
The laws of the Australian Capital Territory apply to this Agreement
This Agreement records the entire agreement between the Parties in relation to its subject matter.
No variation of this Agreement is binding unless agreed in writing between the Parties.
If a court or tribunal says any provision of this Agreement has no effect or interprets a provision to reduce an obligation or right, this does not invalidate any other provision.
If a party does not exercise, or delays in exercising, any of its rights under this Agreement or at law, that failure or delay does not operate as a waiver of those rights.
A single or partial exercise by a party of any of its rights under this Agreement or at law does not prevent the further exercise of any right.
The Participant cannot assign its obligations, and agrees not to assign its rights, under this Agreement without, in either case, prior approval in writing from the Guild.
The Guild will pay the Funds to the Participant, subject to the Guild actually receiving those Funds from the Commonwealth, by installments in accordance with the payment provisions in set out in Schedule 1, Item D.
The funding to be contributed by the Guild for the Project will not exceed the amount of Funds specified in Item D.
The Participant must advise the Department of any other funds that it is or will be receiving for the Project.
The Guild may at its discretion defer, reduce or not make a payment of Funds where it forms the reasonable opinion that the full payment is not properly required by the Participant because of Project surpluses or underspends.
Without limiting its rights, the Guild may at its discretion defer, reduce or not make a payment of Funds until the Participant has performed all of its obligations that are required to be performed up to the date of that payment under this Agreement.
In consideration of the provision of the Funds, the Participant must use the Funds only for the Project and according to the terms and conditions set out in this Agreement.
The Participant agrees to submit invoices for payment of the Funds in the manner specified in Item D.  The amount of the invoice must not exceed the amount of Funds properly required by the Participant for its use in relation to the Project up to the date of the next invoice.
The Participant must keep complete and proper accounts and records of its transactions and affairs in relation to the Funds, in accordance with this Agreement and as required by Law and must ensure that all payments out of the Funds are correctly made and properly authorised and that adequate control in maintained over the incurring of liabilities.
The Participant must retain all accounts and records for at least seven years after the end of the term.
The Participant must not commit any part of the Funds for expenditure that is likely to occur after the end of the Project Period without prior written approval from the Guild.
The Participant must provide the Guild's Liaison Officer with Progress Reports and a Final Report in accordance with the time-frame for Reports specified in Item C.  
Each Progress Report must contain the information specified in Item C and must also include:
a Financial Statement;
Information covering the Project Period to the date of the progress Report on whether the objectives and outcomes of the Project are being achieved; and
if requested by the Guild, a copy of any Material produced in relation to this Agreement up to the date of the Progress Report.
The Final Report must contain the information specified in Item C and must also include:
a Financial Statement; and
a comprehensive report on whether the objectives and outcomes of the Project were achieved and if not, the reasons why those objectives and outcomes were not achieved.
The Participant must meet of liaise with and report to the Guild's Liaison Officer as reasonably required by the Guild's Liaison Officer for the purposes of this Agreement.
Upon receipt of reasonable written notice, the Participant must within the time-frame stipulated in the notice, or within a reasonable time-frame if no time-frame is stipulated in the notice, provide any information in relation to the Project requested by the Guild for the purposes of this Agreement, including monitoring and evaluation.
The Participant must, at all reasonable times, give to persons authorised in writing by the Guild, permission to:
inspect any Material relevant to this Agreement; and
access and copy any records of the Participant relating to the Project or the receipt, expenditure or other use of the Funds.
The Participant agrees to provide all assistance reasonably requested by the Guild in respect of any inquiry into or concerning the Project or this Agreement.
This clause 6 applies until the date of the expiration or earlier termination of this Agreement and for a period of 7 years from that date.
Any Intellectual Property rights and title to, or in relation to, the Project Material will vest, upon creation, in the Guild.
The Participant grants to the Commonwealth a perpetual, irrevocable, royalty-free and licence fee-free, world-wide, non-exclusive licence (including a right of sub-licence) to use, copy, modify and exploit the Project Material.
This clause 7 does not affect the ownership of any Intellectual Property in any Existing Material.
However, the Participant undertakes to grant to the Commonwealth, or (in respect of Existing Material not owned by the Participant) must arrange for the grant to the Commonwealth and the Guild, of a perpetual, irrevocable, royalty-free and licence fee-free, world-wide, non-exclusive licence (including a right of sub-licence) to use, copy, modify and exploit the Existing Material in conjunction with the other Project Material.
The Participant warrants for the benefit of the Participant and the Commonwealth that anything done by the Participant in the course of the performance of this agreement will not infringe the Intellectual Property rights of any person.
For this clause, the 'Specified Acts' relating to Moral Rights means any of the following classes or types of acts or omissions by or on behalf of the Guild or the Commonwealth:
using, reproducing, adapting, modifying, publishing, broadcasting, communicating, commercializing or exploiting all or any part of the Project Material, with our without attribution or authorship;
supplementing the Project Material with any other material; and
using the Project material in a different context to that originally envisaged,
but does not include false attribution of authorship.
The Participant warrants that for the benefit of the Guild and the Commonwealth that:
the author of any Project Material has given or will give a written consent to the Specified Acts (whether occurring before or after the consent is given) which is given directly or indirectly for the Guilds and the Commonwealth's benefit; and
the author of any Existing Material has given or will give a written consent to the Specified Acts (whether occurring before or after the consent is given) which is given directly or indirectly for the Guild and the Commonwealth's benefit in relation to such Material being used, reproduced, adapted and exploited in conjunction with the other Project Material.
Intellectual Property rights entitled to, or in relation to:
Commonwealth Material remains vested at all times in the Commonwealth; and
Guild Material remain vested at all times in the Guild.
The Guild grants to the Participant royalty-free and licence fee-free, world-wide, non-exclusive licence to use, copy and modify:
Commonwealth Material, to the same extent that the Guild is authorized to use the Commonwealth Material; and 
the Guild Material, 
in each case for the sole purpose of performing the Services.
The Participant must ensure that all Commonwealth Material is used strictly in accordance with any conditions or restrictions specified by the Guild or the Commonwealth and that all Guild Material is used strictly in accordance with any conditions or restrictions specified by the Participant.
This clause 7 survives expiration or earlier termination of this agreement.
The Participant must acknowledge, and must ensure that its subcontractors' acknowledge that the Project was the result of the financial and other support it has received from the Commonwealth: in:
all publications, promotional and advertising materials, public announcements and activities by it or on its behalf in relation to the Project or any products, processes or inventions developed as a result of the Project; and
the form set out in Item F, and if not set out in Item F, then in a form approved by the Guild prior to its use.
The Participant is not by virtue of this Agreement, or for any purpose, an employee, partner or agent of the Guild or the Commonwealth, or invested with any power or authority to bind or represent the Participant or the Commonwealth.
The Participant must not represent itself, and must use its best endeavors to ensure that its Participant Personnel do not represent themselves, as being an officer, employee, partner or agent of the Guild or the Commonwealth, or as otherwise able to bind or represent the Guild or the Commonwealth.
If:  
the Guild is satisfied on reasonable grounds that the terms and conditions of this Agreement have not been complied with by the Participant;
the Guild is satisfied on reasonable grounds that the Participant is unable or unwilling to satisfy the terms of this Agreement;
the Guild, by notice of writing, requests the Participant to take action to meet a timeframe or perform an activity in accordance with this Agreement and, after 14 days from the date of this notice (or such longer period as specified in the notice), the Participant has failed to take such action; or
the Guild is satisfied on reasonable grounds that any statement made by the Participant is incorrect or incomplete in a way which would have affected the original decision to select the Participant to perform the Project; 
the Guild may, by written notice to the Participant,  terminate this Agreement or require the Participant to immediately suspend dealings with the Funds.
If this Agreement is terminated in accordance with clause 10.1(c), the Guild will only be liable for any reasonable costs (excluding, without limitation, loss of prospective income or profits) unavoidably incurred by the Participant, which are directly attributable to the termination.
The Guild will not be liable to pay any amount in excess of the amount of Funds remaining unpaid under this Agreement at the date of termination and in respect of such Funds the Participant shall only have recourse to the funds held by the Guild from the Commonwealth that the Guild is lawfully authorised to apply in payment of such Funds under the Project Agreement.
On termination of this Agreement, or for the duration of any suspension of dealings with the Funds, the Participant must hold the Funds in utmost good faith for use only in accordance with the directions of the Guild and will cease all other dealings with the Funds.
The Guild may end the suspension of dealings with the Funds by written notice to the Participant, subject to such preconditions which the Guild may reasonably require.
Except as provided in this clause, the Guild will not come under any liability to the Participation for termination of this Agreement in accordance with clause 10.1.
If:
on the expiration of the Project Period or on any earlier termination of this Agreement, any Funds:
remain unspent or uncommitted; or
cannot, by reconciliation between the accounts and records maintained by the Participant (as reported to the Guild by the Participant in the financial statements referred to in clauses 4.2 and 4.3 (Reports)) be shown to the reasonable satisfaction of the Guild to have been spent or committed in accordance with this Agreement; or 
at any time the Guild forms the reasonable opinion that any Funds have been used, spent or committed by the Participant other than in accordance with this Agreement;
the Guild may by written notice to the Participant require the Participant to repay that part of the Funds, and the Participant must repay to the Guild the amount set out in the notice, within 28 days of receipt of the notice.
The operation of this clause survives the expiration or earlier termination of this Agreement.
The Participant indemnifies the Guild, its officers, employees and agents ('those indemnified') from and against all Liabilities arising under an indemnity given by the Guild to the Commonwealth under the Project Agreement, to the extent the Liability has arisen in connection with a negligent or fraudulent act or omission of the University or a breach of this agreement or unlawful act of the Participant..
The Participant's liability to indemnify the Guild under clause 12.1 will be reduced proportionally to the extent that any unlawful or negligent act or omission of the Guild or it's officers, employees or agents contributed to the loss or damage.
The right of the Guild to be indemnified under this clause 12 is in addition to, and not exclusive of, any other right, power or remedy provide by Law.
Except as provided by this clause, all taxes, duties and government charges imposed or levied in Australia or overseas in connection with the performance of this Agreement will be borne by the State.
The Funds payable (the Original Funds Payable) to the State do not include any amount to cover any liability of the State for Goods and Services Tax (GST) on any supplies made under this Agreement which are taxable supplies within the meaning of A New Tax System (Goods and Services Tax) Act 1999 (the GST Act).
If a supply made by the State under this Agreement is a taxable supply under the GST Act, the State may, by notice in writing to the Department, increase the Original Funds Payable by the Department by the amount of GST that is payable by the State on that part of the Original Funds Payable which relates to the taxable supply as if that part of the Original Funds Payable is the value of the supply for the purposes of the GST Act.
If required by the Department, the State must substantiate to the Department's reasonable satisfaction how any change in the amounts payable by the Department determined under this clause have been calculated before such changes will take effect.
In relation to any taxable supplies made under this Agreement, the State agrees to issue the Department with a tax invoice in accordance with the GST Act, together with or as part of each claim for further payment of Funds submitted for payment pursuant to clause 4.2 (Reports).
The Participant must not disclose Confidential Information without prior approval in writing from the Guild.
In giving written approval the Gild may impose such terms and conditions as it thinks fit.
The Commonwealth may at any time by notice in writing to the Participant, require the Participant to give, and to arrange for its employees and subcontractors engaged in the performance of the Projects to give written undertakings, in a form required by the Commonwealth, relating to the non-disclosure of Confidential Information.
The Participant must promptly arrange for all such undertakings to be given.
The obligations on the Participant under this clause will not be taken to have been breached where the information referred to is required by law to be disclosed.
The obligations contained in this clause 14 shall survive the expiration or termination of this Agreement.
A party giving notice under this Agreement must do so in writing, including by facsimile, that is:
directed to the party's address specified in Item E marked for the attention of the Liaison Officer; and
hand delivered or sent by pre-paid post or facsimile to that address.
The Participant acknowledges that the Funds for the payments referred to above will be sourced from Funds provided by the Commonwealth to the Guild under the Small Project Funding Scheme.
The payment will be made 14 days after the relevant condition precedent has been satisfied (the correct invoice having been previously received and the Guild holding funds from the Commonwealth for the purpose which it is lawfully entitled to pay to the participant).
The Participant must provide the Guild with a correctly rendered tax invoice which:
indentifies the name of the project
sets out the name of the participant's liaison officer
contains a claim for the amount of funds properly required; and 
is a tax invoice


The Participant acknowledges that all Material produced by or on its behalf in relation to the Project must acknowledge (unless directed by the Guild or the Commonwealth no to) that the funding source is as follows - "This Project is funded by the Small Project Funding Scheme as a component of the Rural Pharmacy Workforce Program.
The RPWP is funded by the Australian Government Department of Health and Ageing and is managed by The Pharmacy Guild of Australia.".
This Intellectual Property Register is to be used to record all existing Intellectual Property ("IP") used in relation to the development of Contract Project Material ("Project") and all IP developed during the Contract Project (including new IP, all modifications and adaptations of new IP and IP developed from existing IP).
The forms of IP which must be recorded are all copyright, trade marks, designs, patents, circuit layout rights and plant breeders' rights relevant to the Project.

For purposes of this Agreement, "Confidential information" shall include all information or material that is related to the business of the Disclosing Party and the "Project(s)" which i) may derive economic value, actual or potential, from not being generally known to or readily ascertainable by other persons who can obtain economic value from its disclosure or use; and (ii) is the subject of efforts by Disclosing Party that are reasonable under the circumstances to maintain its secrecy and Classification including; (a) marking any information reduced to tangible form clearly and conspicuously with a legend identifying its Confidential, Classification and Proprietary nature: (b) identifying any oral presentation or communication as confidential immediately before, during or after such oral presentation or communication; or (c) otherwise treating such information as Confidential.
The provisions of clause 2.1  above shall not apply to the whole or any part of the Information to the extent that it is:
trivial or obvious;
already in the other's possession other than as a result of a breach of this clause; or
in the public domain.
For the purposes of this Agreement, Confidential Information would also include information (written or oral) including, but not limited to, drafts, sketches, designs, work-in-progress etc.
that shall be disclosed to the Receiving Party if discussions between the parties proceed to implementation of Project(s).
Such information shall include information passed or discussions made during the course of Project(s) and all future projects between the parties for a period of five (5) years.
It is further agreed by both parties that, Confidential Information shall also include all Work Product.
Receiving Party may only utilise Confidential Information for the purposes of discussing and if thought fit utilising the same for the implementation of Project(s).
All Confidential Information disclosed by any party shall remain the property of such party.
Nothing herein shall require the disclosure of any Confidential Information.
The Receiving Party shall use Confidential Information given by the Disclosing Party to the Receiving Party hereunder only for purposes related to the Approved Purpose and not for its own or the benefit of any third party.
The Receiving Party shall not use the Confidential Information received from the Disclosing Party hereunder for any other purpose or for the benefit of any person or entity other than the Disclosing Party.
The Receiving Party will not, without the prior written consent of the Disclosing Party, disclose, give away, divulge, exchange or make known or available in any manner to any person, Disclosing Party, corporation or other entity (whether or not the Receiving Party receives any benefit therefrom) the Disclosing Party's Confidential Information or any information derived therefrom to any person other than a director, officer, employee, consultant or other representative ("Representative") who needs to know such Confidential Information in connection with the Evaluation and Project(s) and all future projects for five (5) years if Evaluation proceeds with Project(s) implementation;
The Receiving Party shall keep confidential all information (written or oral) concerning the business and affairs of the Disclosing Party that it shall have obtained or received as a result of the discussions leading up to or the entering into or performance of this Agreement (the "Confidential Information");
The Receiving Party (a) must receive and hold the Confidential Information in trust and in the strictest confidence: (b) must protect the Confidential  Information from disclosure and in no event take any actions causing, or fail to take actions necessary in order to prevent, any Confidential  Information to lose its character as Confidential  Information and (c) must not use, reproduce, distribute, disclose or otherwise disseminate the Confidential  Information except in connection with the Project(s).
Any and all reproductions of the Confidential  Information must prominently contain a Confidentiality and/or Classification Legend;
The Receiving Party shall be under no obligation if any Confidential  Information:  
is or becomes part of the public domain other than by breach of this Agreement by Receiving Party; 
is released to the public in writing by the Disclosing Party;
is developed by the Receiving Party independent of any Confidential  Information; 
is rightly received by Receiving Party from a third party; or
is known to the Receiving Party prior to receipt hereunder and can verify such knowledge.
Much of the business information communicated by Disclosing Party to Receiving Party may be trade secrets.
Receiving Party agrees to preserve the secrecy of said information.
All information which becomes known through the course of business conducted by and between the parties shall be deemed trade secrets.
Said trade secrets include, but are not limited to, prepared information packages, financials, related documents, mailing list, names and details of customers and potential customers of the Disclosing Party, intermediaries, contacts and deal sources and deal structures.
Such trade secrets are Confidential Information for the purposes of this Agreement.
The Receiving Party shall be obligated to return or destroy all Confidential Information at the written request of the Disclosing Party if Disclosing Party decides not to enter into Project(s) implementation contemplated by Evaluation.
The Receiving Party  shall return or destroy all Confidential Information of the Disclosing Party and any notes, correspondence, analyses, compilations, documents or other records containing Confidential Information, including all copies thereof, then in the possession of the Receiving Party  or its Representatives, except that a copy of such materials may be maintained by the legal counsel of the Receiving Party  so long as such information is maintained as confidential pursuant to the terms of this Agreement.
Any such return of Confidential Information shall not abrogate the continuing obligations of the Receiving Party under this Agreement.
If parties enter into Project(s) execution following successful Evaluation, the Receiving Party must return, and upon written confirmation of receipt,  then destroy all Confidential information at the written request of the Disclosing Party as described above and set forth in Annexure A (as updated from time to time) within sixty one (61) days of the completion of Project(s).
The Receiving Party shall take all practical steps to keep the Disclosing Party's Confidential Information confidential and shall restrict access to the Confidential Information to those employees, agents and professional advisers and Related Bodies Corporate to whom disclosure is necessary in pursuit of the Approved Purpose.
Each Party shall inform all such employees, agents and professional advisers of the provisions of this Agreement and shall be responsible for ensuring compliance with the said provisions by all such employees, agents and professional advisers.
In the event that the Receiving Party is required by law or legal process to disclose the Disclosing Party's Confidential Information, the Receiving Party shall notify the Disclosing Party  in writing prior to making such disclosure in order to facilitate seeking a protective order or other appropriate remedy from the proper authority; and that the Parties agree to cooperate with each other in seeking such court order or other remedy, and further agree that if the Receiving Party is not successful in obtaining such court order, it will furnish only that portion of the Confidential Information that is legally required and will exercise all reasonable efforts to obtain reliable assurances that confidential treatment will be accorded the Confidential Information.
If parties enter into Project(s) implementation following successful Evaluation, all rights, title and interest in the following shall be the sole and exclusive property of the Disclosing Party  including:

All materials, including but not limited to electronic/Word files, PowerPoint Presentations, tapes, and completed electronic or hardcopy manuscript (of books, articles, magazines etc.
), related to a Project(s), and/or other product resulting from this effort;
The content of the subject matter of the Project(s) provided by the Disclosing Party ;
Any ideas, concepts, sketches, copy, art-work, documentation or notes conceived related to the Project(s)
The completed Work Product including but not limited to the completed book/magazine/articles, software codes, HTML tags, scripts, completed webpages ( if any), financial, administration and accounting records  and files (if any) etc.
The Receiving Party further agrees to promptly disclose all Work Product to the Disclosing Party.
The Disclosing Party may use any or all Work Product generated as it fits without additional compensation to the Receiving Party; however the Disclosing Party is not obligated to use such materials.
To the extent that ownership of the items stated above does not automatically vest in the Disclosing Party, the Receiving Party agrees to transfer and assign to the Disclosing Party all right, title and interest in and to the same, whether or not copyright applications are filed thereon.
If the Disclosing Party is required to obtain the Receiving Party's consent to register any Australia and foreign copyrights related to the Book, the Receiving Party shall provide his/her consent and transfer and assign any of his/her interest as stated herein.
The Receiving Party further hereby grants to Disclosing Party a worldwide, non-exclusive, irrevocable, royalty-free, paid-up license and right to fully exploit and enjoy the Work Product (including, without limitation, any moral rights and data base rights), including a license to any of the Receiving Party's pre-existing background intellectual property or intellectual property rights embodied in or useful for the exploitation of the Work Product.
Receiving Party shall retain no rights whatsoever to its specific content, sales, marketing, distribution, resale, reprinting, or use, except as specified within this Agreement.
The provisions of this Clause on "Ownership Rights of work product" shall survive the termination of this Agreement.
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions if for any reason such as, breach by the Receiving Party of the obligations pursuant to this Agreement, display of sub-standard performance during the Project(s), misrepresentation of warranties; the Project(s) is terminated and not completed, all rights, title, interests to materials (mentioned in Clause 8.1 above) and Work Product created up to and including that point shall pass solely to the Disclosing Party; and any residual payments due to the Receiving Party shall be null and void.
Consideration for this transfer and agreement shall be any and all payments (or due invoices for work/milestones completed) up to this termination date.
Limited Time and Duration.
Receiving Party hereby agrees that during the currency of the Agreement and for a period of one (1) year immediately following the expiration or termination of the Agreement for any reason, whether with or without good cause or for any or no cause, with or without notice, the Receiving Party will not compete with Disclosing Party and its successors and assigns, without the prior written consent of Disclosing Party.
Limited Scope of Prohibited Activities.
The term "not to compete" as used herein shall mean that the Receiving Party  shall not, without the prior written consent of Disclosing Party, (i) serve as a partner, employee, consultant, officer, director, manager, agent, associate, investor, freelancer, or otherwise for, (ii) directly or indirectly, own, purchase, organize or take preparatory steps for the organization of, or (iii) build, design, finance, acquire, lease, operate, manage, invest in, work or consult for or otherwise affiliate with, any business in competition with or otherwise similar to Disclosing Party's business(es).
This Agreement applies to all disclosures made during this, and any future Project Evaluations and if both parties proceed with the Project(s), then the Project(s) implementation stage and all future projects between the parties for five (5) years.
However, the obligations hereunder with respect to any disclosure made within that period will continue for five (5) years after termination of this Agreement.
Each party must comply with the Privacy Act 1988 (Cth) as amended from time to time in respect of any personal held by the either party.
Disclosing Party does not represent or warrant that Confidential Information is accurate, complete, up to date or fit for any particular purpose.
Receiving Party must make its own assessment of the other party's Confidential Information and must satisfy itself as to its accuracy and completeness.
Disclosing Party is not obliged to enter into any further agreement or discussion with the Receiving party or to refrain from entering into an agreement or discussion with a third party as a result of the entry into this Agreement.
Any reliance by the Receiving Party, or other person, on any Confidential Information is solely at its own risk.
The parties agree that Receiving Party shall be an independent contractor and not an agent, employee or representative of Disclosing Party.
The Receiving Party agrees that it will not, without the prior written consent of the Disclosing Party, issue any press release or announcement or otherwise disclose the existence or nature of any Evaluation, discussions or negotiation with the Disclosing Party, this Agreement and if the Project(s) proceeds, agrees not to disclose the proposed business arrangement.
The Receiving Party further agrees to refrain from using the Disclosing Party's name, business, or associates, the Evaluation, the Project(s) and all future projects, the whole or any part thereof, for the purpose of advertising and/or testimonials as part of building their portfolio.
This Agreement may not be assigned by the Receiving Party without the prior written consent of the Disclosing Party, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld.
The Disclosing Party may assign its clients and obligations to any other person or company, and give a 30-day written notice to the Receiving Party prior to doing so.
If any provision of this Agreement shall be held invalid in a court of law, the remaining provisions shall be construed as if the invalid provision were not included in this Agreement.
No failure or delay on the part of either party in exercising any right, power or privilege under this Agreement will operate as a waiver thereof, nor will any single or partial exercise of any such right, power or privilege or of any other right, power or privilege operate as a wavier of any subsequent exercise thereof.
Nothing herein shall be construed as a grant by the Disclosing Party of any license, directly or by implication, estoppel or otherwise, in any Confidential Information.
Nothing in this Agreement will be deemed to create any joint venture, partnership or principal-agent relationship between Disclosing Party and Receiving Party, and neither will hold itself out in its advertising or in any other manner which would indicate any such relationship with the other.
If at any time during the existence of this contract, either Party is unable to perform whole or in part any obligation under this contract, because of war, hostility, military operations of any character, civil commissions, sabotage, quarantine restrictions, acts of Government, fire, floods, explosions, epidemics, strikes or other labor trouble embargoes and any other matter beyond human control/capability, then the date of any obligation shall be postponed during the time which such circumstances are operative.
The Parties acknowledge that compliance with this Agreement is necessary to protect the goodwill and other proprietary interests of the Disclosing Party  and that a breach of this Agreement will give rise to irreparable and continuing injury to the Disclosing Party  which is not adequately compensable in monetary damages or at law.
Accordingly, the Parties agree that the Disclosing Party may obtain injunctive and other equitable relief against the breach or threatened breach of the foregoing provisions, in addition to any other legal remedies that may be available under this Agreement.
If the Disclosing Party shall make application to a court of competent jurisdiction for injunctive relief to enforce this Agreement, the Receiving Party waives, to the greatest extent permissible, any requirement that the Disclosing Party post bond or other security as a precondition to an injunction, whether temporary or permanent.
Each Party agrees that if the Receiving Party shall violate any of the agreements under this Agreement, the Disclosing Party  shall be entitled to an accounting and repayment of all profits, compensation, commissions, remuneration, or other benefits that the Receiving Party or any third party given access to (or possession of) the Disclosing Party 's Confidential Information, directly or indirectly, by the Receiving Party, directly or indirectly, has realised and/or may realise as a result of, growing out of, or in connection with such violation.
These remedies shall be in addition to, and not in limitation of, any injunctive relief or other rights to which the Disclosing Party is or may be entitled at law, or in equity, or under this Agreement.
In the event either Party initiates action to enforce its rights hereunder, the prevailing party shall recover from the non-prevailing party its reasonable expenses, court costs, including taxed and untaxed costs, and reasonable attorneys' fees, whether suit be brought or not.
Receiving Party  agrees to take all  necessary  precautions  to prevent injury to any  persons  (including  employees  of Disclosing Party) or damage to property (including  Disclosing Party's  property)  during  the term of this  Agreement  and shall indemnify  and hold Disclosing Party and its  officers,  agents,  directors and employees harmless against all claims,  losses,  expenses (including reasonable attorney's fees) and injuries to person or property (including death) resulting in any way, from  any  act,  omission  or  negligence  on  the  part  of  Receiving Party  in the performance or failure to fulfill any Services under this Agreement.
Receiving Party warrants that he has or will have good and marketable title to all Work Product assigned by Receiving Party to Disclosing Party pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement.
Receiving Party further warrants that the Work Product and  background  technology  shall  be free  and  clear  of all  liens,  claims, encumbrances or demands of third parties, including any claims by any such third parties of any right,  title or interest in or to the Work Product or background technology  arising out of any trade secret,  copyright,  trademark,  patent, or other intellectual property right.
Receiving Party shall indemnify,  defend and hold harmless  Disclosing Party and its  customers  from any and all  liability,  loss,  cost, damage,  judgment or expense  (including  reasonable  attorney's fees) resulting from or arising in any way out of any such claims by any third  parties,  and/or which  are  based  upon,  or are the  result  of any  breach  of the  warranties contained in the Clause 22.2.
In the event of such a breach or claim,  Receiving Party shall, at no additional  cost to Disclosing Party,  at the Disclosing Party's  option,  either (a) replace or modify the Work Product or background technology, as the case may be, with   functionally   equivalent  and  conforming  Work  Product  or  background technology  or (b)  obtain  for  Disclosing Party  the right to  continue  using the Work Product or background technology, and in all other respects use his best efforts to remedy the breach.
This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, but all of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument.
To expedite the process of entering into this Agreement, the parties agree that signed Transmitted Copies shall be deemed equivalent to original documents until such time as original documents are executed and delivered.
"Transmitted Copies" will mean copies that are reproduced or transmitted via photocopy, facsimile or electronic means (digital signatures) or other process of complete and accurate reproduction and transmission.
All notices under this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed given :
when personally delivered; or
when sent by confirmed fax; or
when sent by confirmed e-mail; or
when sent by pre-paid first class post to the address of the party set out in this Agreement or (if any) such address as such party last provided to the other by written notice.
This Agreement terminates and supersedes all prior understandings or agreements on the subject matter hereof.
This Agreement may be modified only by a further writing that is duly executed by both Parties.
Headings used in this Agreement are provided for convenience only and shall not be used to construe meaning or intent.


Subject to the early termination of this Agreement for default of one party, this Agreement will continue in force for a minimum period of 1 year ("the minimum term").
After expiry of the minimum term, either party may terminate this Agreement by service of written notice on the other party no less than 6 months prior to the date of termination.
AHFWC will, subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, undertake all processes necessary to produce wine ("the wine") in accordance with the normal standards of the practice of winemaking (such service being hereinafter referred to as "the winemaking) from the base products provided to it by the Client comprising either grapes, juice or wine ("Base Product").
AHFWC will carry out the winemaking in a conscientious and professional fashion.
AHFWC will:
At the request of the Client provide advice and consultation on wine styles, winemaking techniques and procedures to be employed.
Within 7 working days of a written request from the Client, provide reports on winemaking progress, analysis, tasting notes and appraisals.
At appropriate stages throughout the winemaking, seek instructions from the Client and in doing so, recommend appropriate future action.
Subject to prior arrangements having been made by the Client, meet with the Client for the purpose of reporting as to production, at such times during business hours as may be reasonably required by the Client.
Properly manage and maintain oak barrels and other items supplied by the Client.
This clause only applies in relation to the winemaking where the Base Product is grapes.
The Client must, no less than 5 days prior to the anticipated harvest date of the grapes, provide a written notice to AHFWC of:
The anticipated harvest date;
The anticipated yield;
The ripeness and health of the grapes; and
The preferred style of wine to be made.
AHFWC will, upon request, assist the Client at such time as the Client reasonably requires (at no charge to the Client) with the preparation of the notice under Clause 4.2.
AHFWC recognises the need for the client to have independent winemaking and viticultural advice and will upon request of the client cooperate with such consultants as the client wishes to employ.
AHFWC will also supply the names of suggested consultants.
AHFWC believes that it is in the best interests of the client to employ at least one independent winemaking consultant and a viticultural consultant and a wine marketing consultant.
No less than 24 hours prior to the anticipated harvest date, AHFWC will provide written confirmation of arrangements for receipt of the grapes.
The Client must inform AHFWC immediately in the event of any variation to the anticipated harvest date and thereafter, the Client must, not less than 12 hours prior to the proposed delivery of the grapes, make arrangements for the re-scheduling of such delivery.
AHFWC must take all reasonable action to promptly give to the Client notice of any re-scheduling of grape receival due to winery logistics or mechanical failure or other factors outside the reasonable control of AHFWC.
The Client will deliver the grapes in sound condition to AHFWC 5A/1 Adelaide Lobethal Road, Lobethal SA 5241 ("the Winery") receival area and pay any cartage applicable.
Delivery scheduling will be agreed between AHFWC and the Client.
Delivery will be made within normal working hours (8.00 am to 5.00 pm Monday to Friday) unless other arrangements have been made with AHFWC.
Crushing of grapes delivered will not occur until the Client (or their representative) has had a reasonable opportunity to inspect the grapes at the time they are delivered to AHFWC.
If the Client fails to inspect the grapes at the time of delivery, then AHFWC will be free to crush the grapes.
AHFWC reserves the right to reject fruit that is in its opinion unsuitable for processing or is contaminated.
Delivery will occur in bins suitable for tipping by rotating head forklift.
AHFWC will weigh each delivery of grapes.
Copy of the weighbridge information will be sent to the Client within 48 hours after delivery.
In the event of parcels of Base Products received by AHFWC weighing less than 500kg ("minor parcels"), in the interests if wine quality and logistics of handling, AHFWC may in its absolute discretion, amalgamate such minor parcels with other parcels of base product.
In amalgamating minor parcels, AHFWC will endeavour to amalgamate such parcels with other parcels of similar variety and styles.
AHFWC cannot and does not guarantee that wine produced from minor parcels is solely sourced from Base Product supplied by the Client.
In the event of parcels of Base Product inspected in the vineyard, or received at the winery showing disease problems which would significantly and adversely affect final wine quality, AHFWC must provide to the Client a report.
This report may initially be verbal but will be confirmed in writing:
On the quality of the Base Product;
Advising of the likely affect on the quality of the wine; and
Recommending appropriate action, including whether to change processing plans or withdraw the Base Product from processing.
Upon provision of a report under clause 5.4, AHFWC will take no further action in relation to the Base Product until the Client provides written instructions to AHFWC on how to proceed.
AHFWC will undertake basic laboratory analysis of each ferment batch including assessing the pH, S02 (free and total), Baume and total acidity.
AHFWC will provide and use such additives as are necessary including yeast strains agreed with the Client, S02 and bentonite (if required).
AHFWC will include such further additives as the Client may require.
In each case such additives to be at the Client's expense.
Juice and/or wine lees remain the property of the Client and must be removed by the Client with the juice or wine unless other arrangements have been made with AHFWC.
AHFWC will maintain Product and Public liability insurance to a sum of no less then $10 million and accidental damage insurance to a sum no less than $250,000.00.
Consequential damage is entirely at the risk of the Client and to the extent that the Client suffers consequential damage as a result of a breach of this Agreement by AHFWC the Client indemnifies AHFWC against all claims seeking to recover damages for the consequential loss suffered by the Client.
The Client will make good to AHFWC any damage caused to AHFWC equipment by material other than Base Product which maybe delivered at the same time as the delivery of the Base Product.
The risk of the Base Products, whilst at the Client's premises, AHFWC's premises or otherwise, will remain with the Client and the Client is solely responsible for insuring such risk.
Any responsibility that AHFWC may have for the Base Products ceases as soon as the Base Products leave the winery premises, namely at the end of the winery's hose or when bottled wine is loaded onto a vehicle.
The Client acknowledges that, in the interests of wine quality, it is necessary to maintain full vessels (thereby reducing the deleterious effects of oxygen on the wine).
For the purpose referred to in Clause 11.1, AHFWC may, subject to Clause 11.3 but otherwise in its absolute discretion:
Fill vessels containing the Client's wine with other wine (being wine of another customer or AHFWC) of a similar variety and quality; and
Fill vessels containing wine of other customers of AHFWC or of AHFWC itself, with the Client's wine of a similar variety and quality.
Any additions made by AHFWC pursuant to this Clause 11 will not cause the original wine to be varied by more than 10% by volume from its original composition; and 
The total volume of wine allocated to the Client must remain unchanged, allowing for usual losses through racking, filtration and other processes in the winemaking.
The remuneration payable by the Client to AHFWC for performing the winemaking and ancillary services under this Agreement and conditions that may be altered by AHFWC at its discretion are set out in Schedule 1.
Additional Client Expenses - Refer Schedule 1, Note 3
The Client will reimburse AHFWC for the following items procured for or on behalf of the Client in the winemaking process at landed cost plus taxes, together with a 10% margin for arranging such items:
Prior to the commencement of each annual vintage AHFWC reserves the right to amend, at its discretion, the remuneration set out in Schedule 1.
If AHFWC elects to amend the remuneration it will do so by notice served upon the Client at least three months prior to vintage.
If the Client does not accept the remuneration increases the Client may within fourteen days after receipt of notification of the remuneration increases elect to terminate this contract in accordance with Clause 1.2.
Goods and Services Tax
GST is not included in the remuneration set out in Schedule 1.
The Client will pay to AHFWC any GST upon receipt of a tax invoice rendered to the Client by AHFWC.
AHFWC may issue invoices to the Client for the remuneration in accordance with Schedule 1.
The Client may pay all invoices in accordance with Schedule 1.
If the Client fails to comply with its obligations under Clause 13.2:
AHFWC may cease provision of the services hereunder; and
Without prejudice to any other right or remedy, all outstanding money will bear interest on daily balances until paid at a rate of interest per annum equal to 4% in excess of the interest rate then charges on the ANZ reference rate and such amount shall be recovered from the Client forthwith.
If the Client fails to pay the whole of any invoice within 21 days of its due date, AHFWC may, without prejudice to any other right of remedy, immediately issue an invoice for the balance of remuneration payable under Schedule 1.
AHFWC will not be obliged to release the Wine, the Base Products or any other property of the Client in its possession until all amounts due, payable and accruing under this Agreement are paid in full.
If the Client does not pay to AHFWC all amounts due under this Agreement within six months of the date of the invoice then AHFWC will be entitled to sell the Base Products and apply the proceeds of sale to all amounts owing by the Client to AHFWC under this Agreement (including all costs incurred by AHFWC in selling the Base Products).
Any excess amount received upon sale of the Base Products over and above the amount owing to AHFWC shall be refunded to the Client.
If by reason of any fact, circumstance, matter or thing beyond the reasonable control of AHFWC it is unable to perform in whole or in part any obligation under this Agreement then AHFWC will be relived of that obligation under this Agreement to the extent and for the period that it is so unable to perform and will not be liable to the Client in respect of any such inability.
Nothing in this Agreement shall constitute the relationship of partnership or employer and employee between the parties hereto and it is the express intention of the parties that any such relationships are denied.
Any notice, report or other communication under this Agreement may be served:
In person at the address if the party referred to in the commencement of this Agreement or at the last know address of the party;
By prepaid post forwarded to the address of the party referred to in the commencement of this Agreement or to the last known address of the party, in which case, service will be deemed to be effected on the next business day after posting; or
By facsimile transmission to the last known facsimile number of the party, in which case, service will de deemed to be effected immediately on transmission.
This Agreement is governed by laws of South Australia and the Commonwealth of Australia and each of the parties submits to the jurisdiction of the Courts of South Australia and the Commonwealth of Australia.
This Clause may be pleaded as a bar to action or suit brought in any court in any other place in the world.
The failure, delay or omission of a party to exercise any power or right conferred upon it will not operate as a waiver of the power or right, nor will any single exercise of any such power or right preclude any other or future exercise of the of the power, or the exercise of any other or right under this Agreement.
The provisions contained in the Agreement comprise the whole of the Agreement between the parties except where required by law.
The provisions of this Agreement supersede and exclude all prior and other discussions, representations (contractual or otherwise) and arrangements relating to the services provided hereunder.
The total liability of AHFWC for loss or damage of every kind whether arising pursuant to this Agreement or out of or in relation to the wine, its sale, delivery or otherwise, whether in tort or contract, or in any other way whatsoever, is limited to the amount paid by the Client to AHFWC under this Agreement at the date when such liability arises or, it this Agreement has been in place for more than 12 months, the amount paid by the Client to AHFWC over the previous 12 months.
If, by reason of fact, circumstances, matter or thing beyond the reasonable control of AHFWC or the Client, either is unable to perform in whole or in part any obligation under this Agreement such party shall be relieved of that obligation under this Agreement to the extent and for the period that it is so unable to perform and shall not be liable to the other party to this Agreement in respect of such inability.
Each of the persons executing this Agreement personally warrant that they have the necessary authority to enter into this Agreement.
In consideration of AHFWC entering into this Agreement at the guarantor's request the Guarantor jointly and severally guarantees to AHFWC due and punctual performance by the Client of the obligations on its part to be performed under this Agreement and indemnifies and agrees to indemnify AHFWC against all loss, damage, costs and expenses suffered or incurred by AHFWC as a result of any failure by the Client of any of the terms and conditions contained or implied in the Agreement and agrees and declares that:-
The guarantee and indemnity shall be a continuing guarantee and indemnity (it being the intent of AHFWC and the guarantor that the guarantee and indemnity and the obligations of the guarantor hereunder shall be absolute and unconditional in all circumstances) and shall be irrevocable and shall remain in full force and effect until the obligations of the Client under this Agreement have been fully satisfied;
The guarantee and indemnity shall not be considered as wholly or partially discharged by the payment at any time of any moneys on account or by any time credit indulgence or concession extended by AHFWC to the Client or the guarantor or any other person or by any compounding, compromise, abandonment, wavier, variation, relinquishment, extension of time to comply with or renewal of any rights of AHFWC against the Client or the guarantor or any other person or by the neglect or omission of AHFWC to enforce any such rights or by the winding up or bankruptcy of any party hereto or by any other dealing, matter or thing whatsoever or by any alteration, modification, variation or addition to this Agreement;
The guarantee and indemnity is in addition to and not in substitution for any other rights which AHFWC may have under or by virtue of this Agreement and may be enforced against the guarantor without first having recourse to any such rights and without taking any steps or proceedings against the Client.
The guarantee and indemnity shall not prejudicially affect or be prejudicially affected by any other security or guarantee or indemnity at any time held by AHFWC but such security shall be deemed to be collateral and the Guarantor shall not as against AHFWC in any way claim the benefit or seek the transfer of any security or any part thereof;
If for any reason whatsoever the Client ceases to be bound by all or any of the terms and conditions of this Agreement or the obligations of the Client under this Agreement are abrogated or modified otherwise than by the Client's performance of all of them or by express agreement in writing then and in any such event the guarantor shall pay to AHFWC an amount equal to the total direct loss or damage incurred by AHFWC by reason of the Client having so ceased to be bound or having its obligations so abrogated or modified and the Guarantor shall do all other acts and things as AHFWC may require to place AHFWC in as good a position as nearly may be to the position in which AHFWC would have been had the Client's obligation  under this Agreement bot been abrogated or modified.
This rights of AHFWC under this sub-paragraph shall be original and independent and shall be in addition to AHFWC's other rights;
The guarantee and indemnity shall ensure to the benefit of AHFWC and its assigns, and every guarantor shall upon demand by AHFWC or any assignee execute a further guarantee and indemnity between the guarantor and the assignee to confirm his guarantee and indemnity.
Any dispute which arises out of or relates to this Agreement its meaning, its performance, or as to any other matter or thing arising in relation to it, the same may be referred by either party to any independent wine industry expert nominated at the request of such party by the Chairman of the Australian Wine and Brandy Corporation as having the skills and experience appropriate for the proper consideration of the matter requiring determination.
The expert will hear all competing points of view in relation to any such dispute or other question and will deliver to the parties within one (1) month after hearing the parties, a statement of the expert's determination which (in the absence of manifest error) is to be conclusive and binding on the parties as a final determination of the particular matter.
In making such a determination the expert will be acting as an expert and not as an arbitrator.
The expert's fees are to be borne equally by the parties unless the expert will otherwise decide.
AHFWC will pay to the Department of Primary industry the Grape Research Levy and the Client will reimburse CW for this charge.
The Wine Grape Levy will be paid by the Client.
GST will be charges in conformance with the legislation in place at the time the supply occurs.
AHFWC will provide tax invoices (within the meaning of the GST legislation) in relation to any taxable supply. 



This Agreement commences on the date specified in Item 1, and terminates on the date specified in Item 2, unless terminated earlier in accordance with clause 15 of this Agreement.
If the Contractor, with the agreement of UNSW, continues to provide the Services after the expiry of the Agreement Term, this Agreement continues to apply.
The Contractor will perform the Services: 
in a diligent and professional manner, and with the necessary skill and care required to perform the Services;
according to any standards that normally apply to the Services and any service standards set under Item 6; 
before the end of the Agreement Term and according to the deadlines or milestones specified in any timetable set under Item 7.
The Contractor is required to comply with the rules, regulations, procedures and policies of UNSW, as amended from time to time.
This includes, without limitation, code of conduct, occupational health and safety, security, discrimination and harassment and privacy.
UNSW rules, regulations, policies and procedures do not form part of this contract.
The Contractor warrants that the Contractor has no conflict of interest in performing the Services as at the date of this Agreement.
If the Contractor becomes aware of any actual or potential conflict of interest, the Contractor will immediately advise UNSW in writing, in which case UNSW may terminate the Agreement pursuant to clause 15.
The Contractor must not assign or sub-contract any part of the Services without the prior written consent of UNSW.
Any such written consent of UNSW does not relieve the Contractor from the Contractor's obligations under this Agreement.
Subject to the Contractor's obligations under this Agreement (including with respect to conflict of interest), the Contractor may provide services to third parties.
The Contractor will provide all equipment necessary to perform the Services and is responsible at his/her cost for insuring the equipment and maintaining it in good working order during the Agreement Term.
If Item 8 specifies that UNSW will provide equipment or facilities for use by the Contractor, then the Contractor must:
use that equipment or those facilities only for the purpose of providing the Services;
ensure that equipment and those facilities are used according to any manufacturer's instructions and any instructions provided by UNSW; and
notify UNSW immediately if the Contractor becomes aware that the equipment or facilities are not working properly, or have become lost or stolen.
To the extent that any GST is payable in respect of this Agreement, including in relation to the Services, the Contractor is liable to pay that GST and indemnifies UNSW against any failure to comply with this clause.
Where this Agreement provides that the Contractor is to be paid by progressive payments, UNSW is entitled to defer payment until the Contractor has completed that part of the Services.
The Contractor must provide invoices to UNSW in the form of a valid tax invoice.
Where the Contractor has subcontracted any part of the Services, the invoice must be accompanied by a completed pro forma principal contractor's statement regarding workers compensation, pay-roll tax and remuneration.
UNSW will pay the Contractor the invoiced Fee within 30 days of receipt of the tax invoice.
If Item 10 specifies that UNSW is to reimburse the Contractor for any expenses, then UNSW will pay those expenses provided that the expenses are approved in writing in advance by UNSW and the Contractor has provided evidence that they have or will be incurred.
If Item 11 specifies that UNSW will own the intellectual property, then the Contractor: 
assigns to UNSW all Intellectual Property created by the Contractor (whether alone or with another person) arising from or in connection with the Services;
agrees that by virtue of this clause all Intellectual Property arising from or in connection with the Services is vested in UNSW;
grants UNSW consent to do or omit to do any act which would otherwise infringe the Contractor's moral rights under the Copyright Act 1968 (Cth) in relation to all works arising from or in connection with the Services; and
must do all things reasonably requested by UNSW to give effect to UNSW's rights under this clause.
If Item 11 specifies that the Contractor owns the Intellectual Property, then the Contractor hereby grants UNSW an irrevocable, perpetual, royalty-free, non-transferable and non-exclusive licence to use the Intellectual Property for:
purposes arising from or in connection with the Services; and
making copies for archival purposes.
The Contractor warrants that all Intellectual Property created in connection with or arising from the Services will be original and will not infringe intellectual property of third parties, and indemnifies UNSW for any demand, cost or expenses as a result of any breaches by the Contractor of the intellectual property rights of third parties.
The Contractor must not publish any articles, statements or any other information in connection with or arising from the Services without UNSW's prior approval in writing.
A party must not disclose the other party's Confidential Information, unless disclosure is required to provide the Services or is authorised in writing by the other party.
These obligations continue beyond the expiry or termination of this Agreement.
The Contractor must handle all Personal Information in accordance with UNSW's Privacy Management Plan and the PPIP Act.
The Contractor must effect and maintain during the Agreement Term the insurance policies specified in Item 12 and any other insurance policy required at law to provide the Services.
The Contractor must notify UNSW immediately if an insurance policy required under clause 10.1 is cancelled.
The Contractor must, if requested by UNSW, provide satisfactory evidence to UNSW of the existence and currency of the insurance policies referred to in clause 10.1.
If the Contractor suffers from any illness or injury arising from performing the Services, the Contractor is solely liable, and the Contractor is responsible for effecting and maintaining personal accident and illness insurance to cover such circumstances.
If superannuation is payable, UNSW will contribute the minimum amount to a complying superannuation fund.
The Contractor performs the Services at his/her own risk and UNSW will not be liable to the Contractor for any loss, damage, injury or death sustained by any person or to any property howsoever caused.
The Contractor indemnifies UNSW against any claim, liability, loss or damage UNSW suffers because of the Contractor's failure to act or negligence with respect to death or injury of a person, damage to or destruction of property, or infringement of Intellectual Property in connection with the Services.
If UNSW becomes liable for the payment of any tax or deduction (including without limitation GST, PAYG Withholding and fringe benefits tax) UNSW may deduct the amount from any monies owing to the Contractor under this Agreement, or if no such monies or insufficient monies are owing, recover the amount from the Contractor as a debt.
The Contractor will provide the Services to UNSW as an independent contractor.
Nothing in this Agreement constitutes, or shall be taken to mean that the relationship between the parties is an employment relationship, partnership or principal and agent.
The Contractor will not represent itself as an employee or agent of UNSW.
The parties agree to comply with any special conditions specified in Item 13 and Annexure B of this Agreement.
To the extent that there is any inconsistency between these terms and conditions and the special conditions in Annexure B, these terms and conditions prevail.
Either party may terminate this Agreement at any time by providing the period of notice specified in Item 3, in writing, to the other party.
Either party may immediately terminate this Agreement if the other party breaches any term of this Agreement and such breach is not remedied within 28 days of the other party receiving written notice of such breach.
UNSW may immediately terminate this agreement if the Contractor: 
fails to carry out the Services according to the terms of this Agreement; 
becomes bankrupt, or insolvent, or enters into a scheme or arrangement with its creditors; 
is charged with any offence involving fraud or dishonesty; or 
without reasonable cause suspends the carrying out of the Services.
Upon receipt of written notice of termination by UNSW, the Contractor will cease or reduce work under this Agreement in accordance with the tenure of the notice and will do everything possible to mitigate any consequential loss to either party.
UNSW will only be liable to pay that part of the Fee that relates to Services provided up to the date of termination.
If UNSW terminates this Agreement, such termination will not release the Contractor from liability in respect of any breach, or non-performance, of any obligation by the Contractor under this Agreement.
Upon termination of this Agreement, the Contractor is required to return all UNSW property and equipment to UNSW.
The expiration or termination of this Agreement will not affect any provisions that are expressed to operate or have effect thereafter.
The failure by a party to require performance of an obligation under this Agreement by the other party will not operate as a waiver of the obligation and the other party remains liable to perform all its obligations under this Agreement.
This Agreement cannot be varied, unless both parties agree in writing.
If any provision of this Agreement is held to be unenforceable, the remaining provisions will continue in full force and effect.
If written notice is required under this Agreement, such written notice must be delivered to the other party's address specified in Items 4.
This Agreement is governed by and is to be construed in accordance with the laws in force in New South Wales.
This Agreement forms the entire agreement between the parties in respect of the subject matter of this Agreement and supersedes all prior agreements, understandings, undertakings and negotiations in respect of the matters dealt with in this Agreement.


The Organisation must submit to the Commonwealth a Project Plan and Project Budget on or before the date specified in the Milestone Schedule in Item 6.2 of Schedule 1, or if no date is specified, within 20 Business Days of the Date of this Agreement.
The Organisation must ensure that the Project Plan and Project Budget:
have been prepared diligently, effectively and to a high professional standard;
will, if implemented in accordance with this Agreement, ensure that all timeframes arising under this Agreement will be met and the Works will meet all requirements of this Agreement and, in particular, will be fit for the Designated Use; and are consistent with the Project Aim.
The Commonwealth will review the Project Plan and the Project Budget submitted under clause 3.1(a) and notify the Organisation that either:
the Project Plan and the Project Budget are acceptable to the Commonwealth; or
the Project Plan or the Project Budget (or both as the case may be), in the Commonwealth's opinion, require amendment in order to meet the requirements specified in clause 

On receipt of notification under clause 3.1(c)(ii), the Organisation must amend the Project Plan and the Project Budget so as to take into account the Commonwealth's comments and resubmit those documents within 20 Business Days of the date of the Commonwealth's notification for re-consideration by the Commonwealth in accordance with clause 3.1(c).
The Organisation must perform the Project in accordance with the Project Plan and the Project Budget accepted in accordance with this clause 3.1 and must not make any amendments to the Project Plan or the Project Budget (or both as the case may be) that would substantively alter:
nature of, or the manner of completion of, the Works as provided for in the Project Plan or Project Budget (or both as the case may be); 
amount of the Funds to be spent by the Organisation on any aspect of the Works or the nature of items on which the Funds are to be spent as provided for in the Project Budget; or
consistency of the Project Plan or the Project Budget (or both as the case may be) with the Project Aim, unless approved in writing by the Commonwealth.
For the avoidance of doubt, the Commonwealth's review of, or comment on, the Project Plan and the Project Budget do not in any way limit or affect the Organisation's obligations under this Agreement.
To the extent of any inconsistency between: the Project Plan accepted in accordance with this clause 3.1 and this Agreement (including the Milestone Schedule); or
the Project Budget accepted in accordance with this clause 3.1 and this Agreement (including the Milestone Schedule),
this Agreement (including the Milestone Schedule) will prevail.
The Organisation is responsible for the design of the Works and must ensure the design of the Works:
is conducted with the level of skill and care of a prudent and competent design professional;
complies with the regulatory requirements of the relevant State or Territory and local government in the jurisdiction in which the Works are to be conducted;
will ensure that the Works are fit for the purpose of the Designated Use on and from the Date for Practical Completion, and throughout the Designated Use Period; and
will ensure that a Certificate of Occupancy will be issued in respect of the Works on their completion.
The Organisation must develop, prepare and maintain copies of all documents necessary to complete the Works in accordance with this Agreement, including all documents that would be prepared by a prudent and competent design professional, in order to ensure the Works are, on completion, fit for use for the Designated Use, throughout the Designated Use Period.
The Organisation must deliver the Project Documents identified in Item 1.4 of Schedule 1 to the Commonwealth no later than the date specified in the Milestone Schedule.
Without limiting or affecting the Organisation's obligations under this Agreement, the Organisation must make copies of the Project Documents available to the Commonwealth for inspection and audit in accordance with clause 13.
The Organisation must obtain all Approvals for: the construction of the Works; and the use of the Works for the Designated Use during the Designated Use Period,
in accordance with this Agreement and must deliver a copy of each Approval to the Commonwealth promptly on request.
If the Works must be varied to obtain any Approval, the Organisation must notify the Commonwealth in writing of those variations and, unless the Commonwealth otherwise consents in writing, must ensure that no variation will adversely affect the Project, the Works, the Project Aim and the use of the Works for the Designated Use throughout the Designated Use Period.
In consideration of the provision of the Funds, the Organisation must:
perform the Project in accordance with the terms and conditions set out in this Agreement;
complete each of the Milestones identified in Item 6.2 of Schedule 1 (by achieving the criteria for completion of the relevant Milestone specified in the Milestone Schedule, if any) on or before the relevant date for completion of that Milestone specified in the Milestone Schedule, with time being of the essence; and

ensure that all work undertaken under this Agreement is consistent with, and in furtherance of, the Program Objectives and the Project Aim.
The Organisation must:
if specified in Item 8 of Schedule 1, appoint in accordance with clause 4.3 a Project Manager to supervise the Works;
comply with the timeframes (if any) specified in the Project Plan accepted in accordance with clause 3.1 and otherwise comply with the timeframes specified in the Milestone Schedule for completion of the Works and the Project more generally; and
ensure that the Works are carried out:
in accordance with the Approvals for the Works;
in accordance with the Project Plan and Project Budget accepted in accordance with clause 3.1;
in accordance with the requirements and standards of all Laws applicable to the Works;
diligently, effectively and to a high professional standard; and
so as to ensure that the Works will be fit for purpose of the Designated Use.
For the avoidance of doubt, to the extent of any inconsistency between the timeframes (if any) specified in the Project Plan accepted in accordance with clause 3.1 and the timeframes specified in Items 3 and 6.2 of Schedule 1, the timeframes specified in Items 3 and 6.2 of Schedule 1 will prevail.
The Organisation must:
promptly after the Date of this Agreement, appoint a suitably qualified person to each Specified Personnel Position;
promptly after appointment, notify the Commonwealth of the identity and qualifications of each person appointed to a Specified Personnel Position;
where requested to do so by the Commonwealth, promptly (and in all cases in the period (if any) required by the Commonwealth) replace a person occupying a Specified Personnel 

Position in circumstances where the Commonwealth considers it necessary to do so in order for the Organisation to properly comply with its obligations under this Agreement;
where a person ceases to perform a Specified Personnel Position for any reason, promptly notify the Commonwealth of the date of that cessation and ensure that the Specified Personnel Position is not left vacant for a period of more than 10 Business Days; and
promptly after appointment, notify the Commonwealth of the identify and qualifications of any person appointed to fill a vacant Specified Personnel Position.
Without limiting the Organisation's obligations under clause 4.4(b), the Organisation must not commence the Works until it has:
obtained all relevant Approvals required under clause 3.4 that are necessary to enable the commencement of the Works;
obtained all insurances required under clause 21.1(a);
where applicable, provided financial security to the Commonwealth in accordance with clause 6.5; and
complied with its obligations under clause 6.3(a),
and it has obtained written confirmation from the Commonwealth (which will not be unreasonably withheld) that the Commonwealth is satisfied that the Organisation has complied with the requirements set out in paragraphs (a) (i) to (a) (iv) (inclusive) above.
The Organisation must: 
obtain written confirmation from the Commonwealth under clause 4.4(a); and
commence the Works, 
on or before the date specified for the commencement of the Works in Item 3.1 of Schedule 1, with time being of the essence.
The Organisation must, promptly on request by the Commonwealth, provide details in writing of all subcontractors that the Organisation is using, or proposes to use, in relation to the conduct of the Project.
In respect of all subcontracts the Organisation must ensure that:
the subcontract facilitates compliance by the Organisation with its obligations under this Agreement;
the subcontract will not conflict with or detract from the rights and entitlements of the Commonwealth under this Agreement;
the other party to the subcontract is financially viable, has the necessary relevant expertise and the appropriate types and amounts of insurance to perform the work in relation to the Project;
the subcontract contains all the relevant terms of this Agreement including those relating to subcontracting, intellectual property, audit and access, privacy, security, confidentiality, warranties and indemnities, disclosure and termination and in particular that the Organisation has or will secure itself a right to terminate the subcontract on terms no less favourable than those accorded to the Commonwealth by clause 18, in the event of this Agreement being terminated;
the other party to the subcontract acknowledges that it may be considered a 'Commonwealth service provider' for the purposes of the Ombudsman Act 1976 and subject to investigation by the Ombudsman under that Act, and that the Commonwealth will not be liable for the cost of any such investigation by the Ombudsman in connection with the subject matter of the subcontract or the subject matter of this Agreement.
If requested, the Organisation must promptly provide to the Commonwealth a copy of any subcontract.
At all reasonable times during the construction of the Works upon giving reasonable notice and subject to the Organisation's reasonable requirements in relation to safety and security:
the Commonwealth or persons authorised by the Commonwealth may enter the Property to inspect and examine the Works; and
the Commonwealth may give notice to the Organisation of any omission, fault or defect in the Works.
Within 10 Business Days, or such longer time as may be agreed to in writing by the Commonwealth, having regard to the nature of the omission, fault or defect, after the receipt of a notice under clause 4.6, the Organisation must cause all matters specified in that notice to be rectified and must notify the Commonwealth when rectification has been effected.
Despite the Commonwealth's right to inspect and examine the construction of the Works:

the Commonwealth is not obliged to check the construction of the Works for any defect, fault or omission; and

the Organisation is not relieved of responsibility for any defect, fault or omission in respect of the Works.
The Organisation must notify the Commonwealth in writing of all proposed variations to the Works that would or might reasonably be expected to have an effect on:
the price of the Works;
the timeframes for completion of the Works, including the Date for Practical Completion;
the fitness of the Works for the purpose of the Designated Use;
the accuracy of the Project Plan or the Project Budget accepted in accordance with clause 3.1; or
the Approvals obtained in relation to the Works.
The Organisation must not vary the Works in a manner described in clause 4.8(a) without the consent in writing of the Commonwealth, which will not be unreasonably withheld.
In order to achieve Practical Completion: the Works must be: complete and free from errors, omissions and defects, except for errors, omissions or defects that:
are of a minor nature;
the immediate making good of which by the Organisation is not reasonably practicable;
the existence of which or the making good of which by the Organisation will not significantly inconvenience users of the Property or the Works for the Designated Use; and
which do not cause any legal or physical impediment to the use and occupation of the Property and the Works for the Designated Use; and

the Organisation must have provided to the Commonwealth a copy of the Certificate of Occupancy in respect of the Works;
the Works must have been commenced to be used by or on behalf of the Organisation for the Designated Use; and
the Organisation must obtain from:

The Organisation must achieve Practical Completion of the Works on or before the Date for Practical Completion, with time being of the essence.
The Organisation must promptly rectify any defects, faults or omissions in the Works which: 
are the exceptions referred to in clause 4.9(a)(i); or
otherwise become apparent after the Date for Practical Completion and which would, or would reasonably be expected to affect the fitness of the Works or the Property (or both as the case may be) for the purpose of the Designated Use.
The Organisation is fully responsible for the performance of the Project and for ensuring compliance with the requirements of this Agreement and all Laws, and will not be relieved of that responsibility because of any: 
involvement by the Commonwealth or any third party in the performance of the Project;
payment of the Funds made to the Organisation on account of the Project; or
subcontracting of all or any part of the Works or the Project.
The Organisation accepts all risks in respect of, and the Commonwealth does not accept any risk for, the conduct of the Works and the Project including all risks of, and associated with, the design, construction and commissioning of the Works, and the risk of the actual cost of the design, construction and commissioning of the Works being greater than anticipated.
The Organisation must perform the Project, including carrying out the Works, on the Property.
The Organisation must promptly provide to the Commonwealth from time to time upon request:
details of the ownership of the Property including a title search of the Property identifying the registered proprietors of the Property; and   
details of the nature of the Organisation's tenure of the Property, certified as being true and correct by the Organisation's legal adviser.
On or before the date specified in Item 6.2 of Schedule 1, or, if no date is specified, within 20 Business Days of the Date of this Agreement, the Organisation must have tenure, and must substantiate (including certify in accordance with clause 6.2(b)) to the reasonable satisfaction of the Commonwealth that it has tenure of the Property by way of fee simple, lease or otherwise, that is sufficient to enable the Organisation to undertake the Project and to comply with its obligations under this Agreement, including under clause 7.
Without in any way limiting or affecting clause 6.3(a), where the Organisation does not own the Property, the Commonwealth may request the Organisation to arrange, and the Organisation must on receiving such a request arrange, for the owner of the Property to enter into a Use Agreement with the Commonwealth.
The Organisation agrees not to do anything during the Term of this Agreement that would give the owner of the Property the right to terminate the Organisation's tenure of the Property or the Organisation's right to use the Property and the Works for the purpose of the Designated Use for the Designated Use Period (or both as the case may be).
Notwithstanding any other clause in this Agreement, the Organisation acknowledges and agrees that it is not entitled to receive, and the Commonwealth is not obliged to pay, any part of the Funds, and, if it has been paid Funds, no Funds are to be expended by the Organisation, unless and until the Organisation has complied with clause 6.3(a).
If the Organisation has not complied with clause 6.3(a) within the timeframes specified in the Milestone Schedule, the Commonwealth may in its absolute discretion terminate this Agreement for default in accordance with clause 18.1.
Without in any way limiting or affecting the Organisation's obligations or the Commonwealth's rights under this Agreement or otherwise at Law or in equity, if the Organisation owns the Property, the Organisation irrevocably:
agrees that the Commonwealth has the right to register and maintain a caveat against the title of the Property, preventing dealings with the Property that the Commonwealth considers are or would be inconsistent with this Agreement, until such time as the conditions imposed under this Agreement have been fully satisfied or discharged; 
charges its rights, title and interest in and to the Property and the Works; and
agrees to sign all consents, as required by the Commonwealth to the lodgement of caveats against the title of the Property in the form required by the Commonwealth from time to time.
to prevent the lapsing, or withdrawal, of any caveat.
If Item 14 of Schedule 1 specifies that the Organisation must provide a financial security, then:
on or before the date specified in Item 6.2 of Schedule 1, or, if no date is specified within 20 Business Days of the Date of this Agreement, the Organisation must provide financial security for performance of this Agreement, in the amount specified in Item 14 of Schedule 1;
the Organisation must ensure that the financial security provided under clause 6.5(a) remains valid and exercisable by the Commonwealth at all times until the Completion Date is achieved;  
the financial security must be: unconditional; on terms satisfactory to the Commonwealth; and from a Bank acceptable to the Commonwealth;

unless clause 6.5(e) applies, the financial security will be released by the Commonwealth within 60 Business Days after the Completion Date or the earlier termination of this Agreement;
the Commonwealth may, in its absolute discretion and without limiting its rights under this Agreement or otherwise, exercise its rights under the financial security:
to obtain compensation for any loss, damage, cost, liability or expense incurred or suffered in the event that the Organisation fails to perform any or all of its obligations under this Agreement as and when they fall due, including upon termination of this Agreement under clause 18.1; or
to recover any debts due to the Commonwealth under or in connection with this Agreement;
if the Commonwealth exercises any or all of its rights under the financial security provided under clause 6.5(a), the Commonwealth is not liable for, and the Organisation releases the Commonwealth from liability for, any resultant loss, damage, cost, expense or liability of or to the Organisation;
the rights of the Commonwealth to recover from the Organisation the balance, after draw down or exercise of any rights under the financial security provided under clause 6.5, of all loss, damage, cost, expense or liability incurred or suffered by the Commonwealth are not limited by the Commonwealth's exercise of any or all its rights under the financial security; and

if the Commonwealth exercises any or all of its rights under the financial security provided under clause 6.5(a), the Commonwealth may, in its absolute discretion, require the Organisation to top up that financial security to the amount specified in Item 14 of Schedule 1.
If Item 14 of Schedule 1 specifies that the Organisation must provide other securities, then:
on or before the date specified in Item 6.2 of Schedule 1, or, if no date is specified, within 20 Business Days of this Agreement, the Organisation must provide the other securities for performance of this Agreement;
the Organisation must ensure that the other securities provided under clause 6.6(a) remain valid and exercisable by the Commonwealth at all times until 60 Business Days after the Completion Date is achieved;  
the Organisation must provide the other securities in the form specified in Item 14 of Schedule 1 which may be in the form of any or all of the following:
a business assets charge over the assets (including Assets) of the Organisation;
a real property mortgage (registered or unregistered) over the Property; and
any other form of security required by, and satisfactory to, the Commonwealth;

the other securities must be:
unconditional; and
on terms satisfactory to the Commonwealth;

unless clause 6.6(f) applies, the other securities will be released by the Commonwealth within 60 Business Days after the Completion Date or the earlier termination of this Agreement;

the Commonwealth may, in its absolute discretion and without limiting its rights under this Agreement or otherwise, exercise its rights under any or all of the other securities:
to obtain compensation for any loss, damage, cost, liability or expense incurred or suffered in the event that the Organisation fails to perform any or all of its obligations under this Agreement as and when they fall due, including upon termination of this Agreement under clause 18.1; or
to recover any debts due to the Commonwealth under or in connection with this Agreement; and

if the Commonwealth exercises any or all of its rights under any or all of the other securities provided under clause 6.6(a), the Commonwealth is not liable for, and the Organisation releases the Commonwealth from liability for, any resultant loss, damage, cost, expense or liability of or to the Organisation.
The Organisation must not create or grant, or enter into any agreement to create or grant, any restrictive covenants, restriction on user, easements, encumbrances, interests, mortgages, caveats, leases or rights affecting the Property or the Organisation's interest in the Property after the Date of this Agreement, without first obtaining the written consent of the Commonwealth which will not be unreasonably withheld.
As a fundamental condition of this Agreement, the Organisation undertakes:
for the Designated Use Period:
to use the Property and the Works, or to ensure the Property and the Works, are used for the Designated Use; 
to ensure the Property and the Works are not left unused or unoccupied for a period in excess of four weeks without first obtaining the written consent of the Commonwealth;  and
not to use the Property or the Works, or permit the Property or the Works to be used for any purpose, other than the Designated Use, without first obtaining the written consent of the Commonwealth; and 
at all times during the Term of this Agreement:
to safeguard the Property and the Works against loss, damage and unauthorised use;
to maintain the Property and the Works in good condition;
to reinstate the Property and the Works if they are damaged or destroyed;
not to grant or Dispose of any interest in the Property, or any part of the Property, without first:

obtaining the Commonwealth's consent in writing (such consent may be withheld at the Commonwealth's sole and unfettered discretion); and.
requiring the purchaser, transferee, lessee, licensee, mortgagee, chargee or other disponee, to enter into a deed of covenant with the Commonwealth, on terms acceptable to the Commonwealth under which the purchaser, transferee, lessee, licensee, mortgagee, chargee or other disponee covenants in favour of the Commonwealth to use the Property and the Works for the Designated Use until the expiry of the Designated Use Period.
Without limiting the Commonwealth's rights under this Agreement or otherwise at Law or in equity, if within the Designated Use Period the Commonwealth is satisfied on reasonable grounds that the Organisation has failed to comply with any of its obligations under clause 7.1, the Commonwealth may by written notice to the Organisation require the Organisation to repay to the Commonwealth the relevant amount calculated in accordance with Item 13 of Schedule 1.
The Organisation must pay to the Commonwealth the amount set out in the notice, within 20 Business Days of the date of the Commonwealth's notice.
If the Organisation fails to make payment within 20 Business Days, the Commonwealth may recover the amount specified in its notice as a debt due from the Organisation.
The Organisation acknowledges and agrees that:
the amounts payable by the Organisation under clause 7.2 represent a genuine and reasonable pre-estimate of the loss to the Commonwealth; and
the Organisation releases the Commonwealth from all claims arising out of or in connection with the Commonwealth's rights under clause 7.2.
The Organisation must take all reasonable steps to ensure that any services provided during the Designated Use Period meet all relevant industry accreditation standards and any requirements to be registered and licensed.
Subject to Parliamentary appropriation and to the provisions of this Agreement, the Commonwealth agrees to pay to the Organisation the maximum amount of the Funds specified in Item 6.1 of Schedule 1 in accordance with Item 6.2 of Schedule 1.
Notwithstanding any other clause of this Agreement:
the Commonwealth may, at its absolute discretion defer, reduce or not make a payment of Funds;
the Organisation is not entitled to receive, and the Commonwealth is not obliged to pay, any amount under this Agreement; and
if the Organisation has received any Funds, the Organisation is not entitled to spend those Funds,
if at any time:
the Commonwealth has insufficient Program funding available at the time the payment is due to the Organisation;
the Commonwealth has become entitled to terminate this Agreement under clause 18.1;
the Commonwealth forms the opinion on reasonable grounds that the full payment is not properly required by the Organisation to carry out the Project or because of Project surpluses or underspends;
before the commencement of the Works, the Organisation has not complied, to the reasonable satisfaction of the Commonwealth, with its obligations to:
have tenure in accordance with clause 6.3(a)
provide a financial security as required by clause 6.5;
provide other securities as required by clause 6.6; or
take out the insurances required by clause 21.1(a); or

the Organisation has not complied with any provision of this Agreement which provides that the Organisation will not be entitled to spend or receive any Funds until that obligation has been complied with.
Funds provided under this Agreement:
must only be used for the purposes of carrying out the Project and performing this Agreement;
are not to be applied towards administrative and other general costs of the Organisation that are not directly associated with the performance of the Project (including the Organisation's administrative costs in administering this Agreement) unless any such costs are expressly included in the Project Budget; and
must not, unless the prior written approval of the Commonwealth has been obtained, be used in a manner which is inconsistent with the Project Budget accepted in accordance with clause 3.1.
The funding to be contributed by the Commonwealth in relation to the Project will not exceed the maximum amount of Funds specified in Item 6.1 of Schedule 1.
The Commonwealth accepts no liability for:
any debts incurred by the Organisation;
any monies owing by the Organisation to its officers, employees, agents, contractors or subcontractors;  
any budget or cost overruns of the Works; or
any insufficient monies to complete the Works..
The Organisation warrants that the Funds, together with all other contributions made or received by the Organisation in relation to the Project, will be sufficient to ensure the due and proper completion of the Works and the Organisation's obligations under this Agreement.
The Organisation must: 
maintain with a Bank a bank account which is controlled solely by the Organisation to hold all Funds under this Agreement; 
immediately deposit all Funds received into that bank account and notify the Commonwealth Project Contact of the identifying details of that bank account; 
ensure that the bank account does not, at any time during the Term of this Agreement, contain any monies other than the Funds and any interest forming part of the Funds; and
every 6 months, commencing 3 months after the Date of this Agreement, until the Date for Practical Completion, provide to the Commonwealth a statement of the balance of the Funds in the bank account.
The Organisation must:
promptly notify the Commonwealth in writing of the amount and source of any funding or other contributions for the Project (other than Funds provided under this Agreement) and, if requested by the Commonwealth, promptly provide  to the Commonwealth copies of any written arrangements entered into, or proposed to be entered into, in respect of such other funding or contributions; and
ensure that the terms on which any other funding or contributions are provided to the Organisation for, or in connection with, the Project are not inconsistent with the terms of this Agreement and do not in any way limit or affect the Organisation's ability to comply strictly with its obligations, or the Commonwealth's ability to exercise its rights, under this Agreement.
The Organisation must:
keep comprehensive and accurate accounts and records of its use of the Funds, that can be separately identified from other accounts and records of the Organisation; and
retain the accounts and records referred to in this clause 11 for a period of 7 years or such longer period as may be required by Law.
The Organisation must keep comprehensive written records of the conduct of the Project including progress against the Milestones and the achievements of the Project Aim and Program Objectives.
The Organisation must:
produce reports (including Reports), information and other Material produced under or in connection with this Agreement and otherwise as reasonably required by the Commonwealth; and 
provide all reports (including Reports), information and other material to the Commonwealth in accordance with the timeframes specified in this Agreement and otherwise promptly upon demand.
The Organisation must keep financial records relating to the Project so as to enable:
all revenue and expenditure related to the Project to be identified in the Organisation's accounts;
the preparation of a Financial Report; and
the Audit of these records.
Without limiting the Organisation's other obligations under this Agreement, the Organisation must provide to the Commonwealth the Reports specified in Item 5 of Schedule 1:
at the times specified in Item 5 of Schedule 1; and
in the format (if any) and including the content specified in Item 5 of Schedule 1, 
In addition to paragraph (a), the Commonwealth may at any time, and from time to time, during the Term of this Agreement, require the Organisation to provide reports and other information in addition to the reports required under clause 11.5(a) (Additional Reports).
Where the Commonwealth requires an Additional Report, it will issue a direction in writing to the Organisation requiring an Additional Report to be provided and specifying the Commonwealth's requirements in relation to the:
format;
content;
information and substantiating documentation to be submitted; and
auditing or certification (if any),
for that Additional Report.
The Organisation must comply with a direction of the Commonwealth under this clause 11.5(b) by submitting the requested Additional Report which complies with all requirement of the Commonwealth as set out in its direction, within 20 Business Days of receiving the Commonwealth's direction or within such longer period (if any) as the Commonwealth may allow..
The Organisation must prepare a Financial Report at the end of each financial year in which the Organisation has received, expended or retained Funds pursuant to this Agreement.
The Organisation must engage an Approved Auditor to Audit the Financial Reports of the Organisation and to prepare an Auditor's Report.
Within 60 Business Days of the end of each financial year in which the Organisation has received, expended or retained Funds pursuant to this Agreement, or within 60 Business Days of the earlier termination of this Agreement, the Organisation must provide to the Commonwealth:
a certificate signed by a representative of the Organisation with the authority to make representations on behalf of the Organisation stating whether:
the Funds have been used for the purpose for which they were provided; and
all terms and conditions of the Agreement were complied with; and
the Auditor's Report on the Financial Reports; and
the Financial Reports referred to in clause 11.6.
The Organisation must retain its financial records and other information referred to in this clause 11 for a period of 7 years or such longer period as may be required by Law.
The Organisation must participate, at its own cost and as required by the Commonwealth, in studies, evaluations and other activities intended to analyse the success of the Project in achieving the Project Objectives and the Project Aim, on terms required by the Commonwealth.
Such participation may, where required by the Commonwealth, include:
attendance at relevant conferences and forums in which evaluations and analysis are being undertaken;
allowing third parties access to the Property to undertake analysis and evaluation of the Program and the Project; and 
making reports (including Reports), records and other information available to third parties for the purposes of evaluation and analysis.
The Organisation must liaise with and report to the Commonwealth's Project Contact in relation to the Project, and as reasonably required by the Commonwealth's Project Contact for the purposes of this Agreement.
Upon request, the Organisation must within the timeframe stipulated in the request, or promptly if no timeframe is stipulated in the request, provide all information, in relation to the Project or the Organisation, as requested by the Commonwealth Project Contact for the purposes of this Agreement, including for monitoring and evaluation purposes.
The Organisation acknowledges and agrees that the Commonwealth and any persons nominated by the Commonwealth may, at reasonable times and on giving reasonable notice to the Organisation:
access and inspect the Organisation's premises to the extent relevant to the performance of this Agreement;
access and inspect the Property and the Works;
access and inspect any Assets, wherever they may be located;
require the Organisation (including its officers, employees, agents and subcontractors) to provide records, Project Documents and information relevant to the performance of this Agreement in a data format and storage medium accessible by the Commonwealth; 
inspect and copy documentation, books and records, however stored, in the custody or under the control of the Organisation (including its officers, employees, agents and subcontractors) relevant to the performance of this Agreement; and
require assistance in respect of any inquiry into or concerning the Works, the Project, the Program or this Agreement.
For the purpose of this clause 13.1(f), an inquiry includes any administrative or statutory review, audit or investigation (whether within or external to the Commonwealth), any request for information directed to the Commonwealth, any judicial or quasi-judicial inquiry, and any inquiry conducted by Parliament or any Parliamentary committee.
The Organisation must promptly comply with all requirements of the Commonwealth under this clause 13.1.
The Organisation must provide the Commonwealth (including its nominees, officers, employees and agents) with access to the Organisation's computer hardware and software to the extent necessary for the Commonwealth to exercise its rights under clause 13.1, and must provide the Commonwealth with any reasonable assistance requested by it to use that hardware and software.
Subject to clause 13.3(b), each Party must bear its own costs of any inspections, reviews, audits and inquiries conducted pursuant to this clause 13.
If an audit, inspection, review or inquiry conducted pursuant to this clause 13 identifies a breach by the Organisation of this Agreement, the Commonwealth may recover its costs of conducting that inspection, review, audit or inquiry as a debt due from the Organisation.
Without limiting clause 13.1, the Commonwealth's rights under clauses 13.1 and 13.2 apply equally to the Auditor-General or a delegate of the Auditor-General, the Ombudsman or a delegate of the Ombudsman, and the Privacy Commissioner or a delegate of the Privacy Commissioner, for the purpose of each performing their functions or activities (as the case may be).
This clause 13 applies for the duration of the Term of this Agreement and for a period of 7 years from the termination or expiry of this Agreement.
The Organisation must ensure that any subcontract entered into for the purposes of this Agreement contains a clause granting the Commonwealth access rights on terms equivalent to clauses 13.1 to 13.5 (inclusive).
All rights in relation to Intellectual Property comprised in the Project Material created by the Organisation will vest, upon creation, in the Organisation.
The Organisation grants, and must ensure all third parties holding rights in relation to Intellectual Property comprised in Reports grant, to the Commonwealth a perpetual, irrevocable, royalty-free, worldwide, non-exclusive licence (including a right of sub-licence) to use, reproduce, modify, adapt, communicate, publish, broadcast and exploit the Reports for Commonwealth purposes.
The Organisation grants, and must ensure all third parties holding rights in relation to Intellectual Property comprised in Project Material (other than the Reports) grant, to the Commonwealth a perpetual, irrevocable, royalty-free, worldwide, non-exclusive licence (including a right of sub-licence) to use, reproduce, modify, adapt, communicate, publish,  and broadcast the Project Material (other than the Reports) for the purposes of the Project, the Program or for other purposes connected with the operation of this Agreement.
On termination or expiry of this Agreement, or earlier if requested by the Commonwealth, the Organisation must promptly deliver a copy of all Project Material then in existence to the Commonwealth in an agreed format, or as otherwise directed by the Commonwealth.
The Organisation warrants that anything done by the Organisation in the course of the Project, including in developing the Reports, will not infringe the Intellectual Property and Moral Rights of any person.
The Organisation further warrants that the Commonwealth will not, at any time, be infringing the Intellectual Property and Moral Rights of any person when it undertakes an activity allowed for under this Agreement or uses Project Material in a manner consistent with the licences granted, or to be granted, to the Commonwealth under this clause 14.
Intellectual Property rights and title to, or in relation to, Commonwealth Material remains vested at all times in the Commonwealth.
The Commonwealth grants the Organisation a royalty-free, world-wide, non-exclusive licence (including a right of sub-licence to sub-license subcontractors) to use, reproduce and modify the Commonwealth Material for the purposes of the Project.
The Organisation must ensure that all Commonwealth Material is used strictly in accordance with any conditions or restrictions specified by the Commonwealth from time to time.
The Organisation must, unless otherwise agreed by the Commonwealth in writing, ensure that each person who:
has been involved in the performance of the Project ; and
is or will be the author of any Project Material (including the Reports) that is to be licensed to the Commonwealth in accordance with this clause 14,
provides a written consent to the Commonwealth permitting the Commonwealth (including its officers, employees and other persons through it) to conduct any act which would otherwise infringe the Moral Rights held by that person.
The consent provided under clause 14.7(a) must be consistent with the Commonwealth being able to conduct any act it is licensed to conduct under this Agreement.
The Organisation must acknowledge the financial and other support it has received from the Commonwealth:
in all publications, promotional and advertising materials, public announcements, signs or plaques displayed at the Property;
in all activities by it or on its behalf in relation to the Project; 
if requested by the Commonwealth, with any products, processes or inventions developed as a result of the Project; 
at, and by inviting representatives of the Commonwealth (including the Minister) to any formal public openings of the Works;
in respect of publications, promotional and advertising materials, public announcements, signs or plaques in a form approved by the Commonwealth prior to its use; and
otherwise at the times and in the manner as the Commonwealth directs from time to time.
The Organisation must not use Funds towards the purchase of Assets unless the Asset is identified in the Project Budget accepted in accordance with clause 3.1.
The Organisation must not use Assets for any purpose other than the performance of the Project and the Designated Use unless it has obtained the prior written approval of the Commonwealth which will not be unreasonably withheld.
The Organisation must:
not Dispose of any Asset, or deal with any Asset other than in accordance with this Agreement, without having obtained the prior written approval of the Commonwealth which will not be unreasonably withheld;
maintain all Assets in good working order;
be fully responsible for, and bear all risks arising in relation to, the use or Disposal of any Asset;
maintain a register of all Assets, recording the date of purchase or lease, the purchase or lease price, Asset description, Asset location, the proportion of the Funds used to create or acquire the Asset, the carrying amount of the Asset and (where approved under clause details of Disposals of the Asset, including the sale price; and
as and when requested, provide copies of the register of Assets to the Commonwealth.
The Organisation must obtain the prior written approval from the Commonwealth before Disposing of an Asset.
If, at the time of the Disposal, the Asset has not been fully Depreciated the Organisation must, at the option of the Commonwealth:

pay to the Commonwealth within 20 Business Days of the date of the Disposal, an amount equal to the proportion of the value of the Asset following Depreciation that is equivalent to the proportion of the purchase price of the Asset that was funded from the Funds;
pay to the Commonwealth within 20 Business Days of the date of the Disposal, the proceeds of the Disposal, less an amount equal to the sum of the Organisation's proportionate contribution to the purchase price of the Asset and the Organisation's reasonable costs of Disposal of the Asset; or

use the amount payable to the Commonwealth under clause 16.4(a) or (b) (as the case may be) for a purpose (as is determined by the Commonwealth) , and in accordance with conditions, approved in writing by the Commonwealth.
If the Organisation fails to make a payment or use the amount as required by clause 16.4(a), (b) or (c) (as the case may be):
the Organisation must pay the Commonwealth Interest on the relevant amount from the date it was due, for the period it remains unpaid; and
the relevant amount, and Interest owed under this clause 16.5(a) will be recoverable by the Commonwealth as a debt due from the Organisation.
Without prejudice to any other right or remedy that the Commonwealth may have under this Agreement, any Law or in equity, if, in the Commonwealth's opinion, the Organisation has breached, or is in breach of, any obligation under this Agreement, the Commonwealth may (either itself or through a third party):
step-in and take control of management of part or the whole of the Project, including by performing any or all of the Organisation's obligations under this Agreement; or
make any other arrangements considered necessary or desirable by the Commonwealth to complete all or part of the Project or to otherwise ensure the completion of all of the Organisation's obligations under this Agreement.
The Organisation must do everything necessary or desirable to give effect to the Commonwealth's rights under clause 17.1 as directed by the Commonwealth including:
novating or assigning to the Commonwealth or its nominee any contracts with subcontractors or other third parties relating to the Project or the due and proper completion of the Works;
authorising the Commonwealth to deal with all Funds held by the Organisation, including authorising the Commonwealth or its nominee to act as a signatory to the Organisation's bank account in which Funds are held, or to be held, in accordance with clause 9; 
assigning to the Commonwealth or its nominee any leases or licences relating to the Project that are, in the Commonwealth's opinion, required for the due and proper completion of the Project or the Works (or both as the case may be); 
providing to the Commonwealth or its nominee unfettered access to the Property and the Works for the purposes of the Commonwealth exercising its rights under clause 17.1; and

at the Commonwealth's sole and unfettered discretion, repaying to the Commonwealth or its nominee, within the timeframes specified by the Commonwealth or, if no timeframes are specified, promptly, all Uncommitted Funds (in whole or in part) identified by the Commonwealth.
Without limiting or affecting the Commonwealth's rights under this Agreement, the Commonwealth may recover all its costs associated with exercising its rights under this clause 17 (including costs associated with recovering any amount of Uncommitted Funds from the Organisation) as a debt due from the Organisation.
The Commonwealth will not be liable in any way to the Organisation, its officers, employees, agents, subcontractors and any third party in relation to any act or omission arising out of or in connection with the exercise of the Commonwealth's rights under this clause 17.
The Organisation releases the Commonwealth from all liability arising out of, or in connection with, the exercise of the Commonwealth's rights under this clause 17

The Organisation indemnifies and will continue to indemnify the Commonwealth from and against all:
loss, damage, costs and expenses suffered or incurred by the Commonwealth, including as the result of any claim made in relation to:
loss of or damage to third party property; or
the injury, illness or death of a third party; 
loss of, or damage to, Commonwealth property; or
loss, damage, costs and expenses suffered or incurred by the Commonwealth in dealing with any claim against the Commonwealth, including legal costs and expenses on a solicitor/own client basis and the cost of time spent, resources used, or disbursements paid by the Commonwealth;
arising out of or in connection with the exercise of the Commonwealth's rights under this clause 17.
The Organisation's liability to indemnify the Commonwealth under clause 17.2(e) will be reduced proportionately to the extent that any negligent or unlawful act or omission of, or wilful misconduct by, the Commonwealth, its officers and employees contributed to the relevant loss, damage, cost, expense or liability.
the Organisation fails to provide evidence of the Organisation's tenure over the Property to the satisfaction of the Commonwealth within the timeframes specified in the Milestone Schedule;
the Organisation fails to comply with any timeframe under this Agreement which is stated to be of the essence;
the Organisation does not commence the Works within the timeframe specified in Item 3.1 of Schedule 1 for the commencement of the Works;
the Organisation fails to remedy its failure to comply with any term or condition of this Agreement within 10 Business Days of receiving a notice  (or such longer period as the Commonwealth may at its sole and unfettered discretion specify in the notice)  from the Commonwealth requiring the Organisation to do so;
the Commonwealth is satisfied on reasonable grounds that any statement, representation or warranty made by the Organisation is incorrect or incomplete in a way which would have affected the original decision to approve the Funds for the Project;

the Commonwealth is satisfied on reasonable grounds that a report (including a Report) given by the Organisation is significantly misleading, or substantially incomplete or inaccurate;
the Organisation:
becomes or is likely to become insolvent;
makes an assignment of its estate for the benefit of creditors or enters into any arrangement or composition with its creditors or has a receiver, manager or administrator appointed on behalf of debenture holders or creditors; or
suffers any execution against its assets which has or will have an adverse effect on its ability to perform the Agreement;
the Organisation breaches any term or condition of any other funding agreement between the Organisation and the Commonwealth;
the Organisation, by notice in writing given to the Commonwealth, withdraws from this Agreement; or

the Commonwealth considers it appropriate for any other reason,
the Commonwealth may by written notice to the Organisation, require the Organisation to immediately suspend dealings with the Funds (in whole or in part), or terminate this Agreement in its entirety (or both as the case may be)..
If this Agreement is terminated in accordance with clause 18.1(j), the Commonwealth will only be liable for any reasonable costs (excluding, without limitation, loss of prospective income or profits) unavoidably and properly incurred by the Organisation prior to the date of termination, which are directly attributable to the termination.
Without limiting any other right the Commonwealth may have under this Agreement, any Law or in equity, including rights to recover the Funds, the Commonwealth will not be liable to pay any amount in excess of the amount of Funds remaining unpaid under this Agreement as at the date of termination.
Except as provided in this clause 18.2, the Commonwealth will not be liable to the Organisation in any way for termination of this Agreement in accordance with clause 18.1(j).
On termination of this Agreement, or for the duration of any suspension of dealings with the Funds, the Organisation must only deal with the Funds in accordance with the directions of the Commonwealth and must cease all other dealings with the Funds.
The directions of the Commonwealth may be given at any time after the termination or during any period of suspension.
If the Commonwealth does not provide any directions the Organisation must not deal with the Funds.
The Commonwealth may end the suspension of dealings with the Funds by written notice to the Organisation, subject to such preconditions (including variations to this Agreement) which the Commonwealth may require.
The Commonwealth will not be obliged to pay any part of the Funds to the Organisation during any period of suspension of dealings with the Funds.
or, subject to clause 18.2, after the termination of this Agreement.
If a purported termination for cause by the Commonwealth under any of clauses 18.1(a) to 18.1(h) (inclusive) is determined by a competent authority not to be properly a termination for cause, then that termination by the Commonwealth will be deemed to be a termination for convenience under clause 18.1(j), which termination has effect from the date of the notice of termination referred to in clause 18.1, and the Organisation's sole rights in such circumstances will be only those set out in clause 18.2.

on expiry or on any earlier termination of this Agreement, any or all of the Funds: 
have not been spent or Committed in accordance with this Agreement; or
cannot, by reconciliation between the accounts and records maintained by the Organisation and the Project Budget accepted in accordance with clause 3.1, be shown to the reasonable satisfaction of the Commonwealth to have been spent or Committed in accordance with this Agreement; or
at any time the Commonwealth forms the reasonable opinion that any Funds have been used, spent or Committed by the Organisation other than in accordance with this Agreement;
the Commonwealth may by written notice to the Organisation: 
require the Organisation to repay that part of the Funds, and the Organisation must repay to the Commonwealth the amount set out in the notice, within 20 Business Days of receipt of the notice;
deduct an equivalent amount from the Funds payable to the Organisation pursuant to this Agreement or from any other amounts payable to the Organisation under any other agreement with the Commonwealth; or
require the Organisation to use all or part of those Funds as the Commonwealth in its sole and unfettered discretion sees fit.
If the Organisation fails to repay the Funds in accordance with a notice issued under clause 19.1(c) or fails to use the Funds as directed under clause 19.1(e) (as the case may be):

the Organisation must pay the Commonwealth Interest on the amount set out in the notice from the date it was due, for the period it remains unpaid; and
the amount set out in the notice, and Interest owed under this clause 19.2(a), will be recoverable by the Commonwealth as a debt due from the Organisation.
The Organisation acknowledges that Interest payable under clause 19.2(a)(i) represents a reasonable pre-estimate solely in respect of the loss incurred by the Commonwealth as a result of the loss of investment opportunity for, or the reasonable cost of borrowing money in place, of the amount which should have been repaid.
The Organisation releases the Commonwealth from, and indemnifies and continues to indemnify the Commonwealth against, all: 
loss, damage, costs and expenses suffered or incurred by the Commonwealth, including as the result of any claim made in relation to:
loss of or damage to third party property; or
the injury, illness or death of a third party; 
loss of or damage to Commonwealth property; or
loss, damage, costs and expenses suffered or incurred by the Commonwealth in dealing with any claim against the Commonwealth, including legal costs and expenses on a solicitor/own client basis and the cost of time spent, resources used, or disbursements paid by the Commonwealth;
arising from: 
any act or omission by the Organisation (including any of its officers, employees, agents or subcontractors) in connection with this Agreement, where there was fault on the part of the person whose conduct gave rise to that liability, loss, damage, cost or expense; 

any breach by the Organisation (including any of its officers, employees, agents or subcontractors) of its obligations or warranties under this Agreement; 

any use or disclosure by the Organisation (including its officers, employees, agents or subcontractors) of Personal Information or Confidential Information (or both, as the case may be) held or controlled in connection with this Agreement; or 
the use by the Commonwealth of the Project Material, including the Intellectual Property and Moral Rights comprised in the Project Material.
The Organisation's liability to indemnify the Commonwealth under clause 20.1 will be reduced proportionately to the extent that any fault on the part of the Commonwealth (including its officers and employees) contributed to the relevant loss, damage, expense, cost or liability.
The Commonwealth's right to be indemnified under clause 20.1 is in addition to, and not exclusive of, any other right, power, or remedy provided by Law or in equity, but the Commonwealth is not entitled to be compensated in excess of the amount of the relevant loss, damage, expense, cost or liability.
The Organisation must take out or have taken out for the period specified in clause 21.1(b) or 21.1(c) (as the case may be):
on execution of this Agreement, workers compensation and public liability insurances as specified in Item 9.1 of Schedule 1; 
prior to commencement of the Works, all insurances as specified in Item 9.2 of Schedule 1 and all other appropriate types and amounts of insurance to cover the Organisation's activities and obligations under or in connection with this Agreement; and
prior to commencement of the Designated Use Period, all insurances as specified in Item 9.3 of Schedule 1 and all other appropriate types and amounts of insurance to cover the Organisation's activities and obligations under or in connection with this Agreement.
If the Organisation takes out a 'claims made policy', which requires all claims and any fact situation or circumstance that might result in a claim to be notified within the period of insurance, the Organisation must:

in the case of insurance taken out as required by clause maintain the policy (or a policy in like terms) during the Term of this Agreement and for a period of 7 years on and from the expiry or the early termination of this Agreement;

in the case of insurance taken out as required by clause 21.1(a)(ii), maintain the policy (or a policy in like terms) during the construction of the Works until Practical Completion and for a period of 7 years on and from Practical Completion having occurred or the early termination of this Agreement; and

in the case of insurance taken out as required by clause 21.1(a)(iii), maintain the policy (or a policy in like terms) during the Designated Use Period and for a period of 7 years on and from the expiry or the early termination of this Agreement.
If the Organisation takes out an 'occurrence' policy, which requires the circumstances to which a claim relates to occur during the period of insurance whilst the notification of event can occur at any time subsequently, the Organisation must maintain the policy:
in the case of insurance taken out pursuant to clause 21.1(a)(i).
during the Term of this Agreement;
in the case of insurance taken out pursuant to clause 21.1(a)(ii), during the construction of the Works until Practical Completion; and
in the case of insurance taken out pursuant to clause 21.1(a)(iii), during the Designated Use Period.
The Organisation must ensure that any subcontract entered into by the Organisation in relation to this Agreement places on the subcontractor, in respect of the subcontractor's activities, the same or similar obligations about insurances, as this clause 21 places on the Organisation.
The Organisation must, on request, promptly provide to the Commonwealth any relevant insurance policies and certificates of currency for inspection.
If during the Term of this Agreement:
the Works or the Property (or both as the case may be) are lost, damaged or destroyed by a risk against which the Organisation is required under this Agreement to be insured; and the payment of insurance moneys under the relevant insurance policy has not been refused in whole as a direct consequence of any act or omission of the Commonwealth in breach of this Agreement, then the Organisation must:
claim and obtain payment of any insurance moneys to which it is entitled under the relevant insurance policy in respect of the relevant loss, damage or destruction;
apply all relevant insurance proceeds in:

if required by the Commonwealth, reinstating the Works or the Property (or both as the case may be); or
otherwise, paying the Commonwealth: 
an amount calculated in accordance with Item 13 of Schedule 1; or
where the insurance proceeds are less than the amount calculated in accordance with Item 13 of Schedule 1, the total insurance proceeds.
The Organisation must not disclose to any person other than the Commonwealth any Confidential Information without prior approval in writing from the Commonwealth.
The Commonwealth may at any time by notice or in writing to the Organisation, require the Organisation to give, and to arrange for its officers, employees, agents and subcontractors undertaking activities under or in connection with the performance of this Agreement to give, written undertakings, in a form required by the Commonwealth relating to the non-disclosure of Confidential Information.
The Organisation must promptly comply with all such requirements of the Commonwealth.
The Organisation acknowledges and agrees that the Commonwealth may disclose all information relevant to this Agreement that is confidential to the Organisation to any person:
to the extent required by Law or by a lawful requirement of any Proper Authority;
if required in connection with legal proceedings;
for public accountability reasons, including disclosure on request to other government agencies, and a request for information by Parliament, a Parliamentary Committee or a Commonwealth minister; or
for any other requirement of the Commonwealth relevant to the administration of this Agreement.
The Organisation agrees that:
if it obtains Personal Information while conducting the Project or otherwise performing its obligations under this Agreement it will use or disclose that Personal Information only for the purposes of this Agreement;
it will comply with the IPPs as if the Organisation were an agency under the Privacy Act; and
it will otherwise comply with the Privacy Act.
The Organisation must ensure that any subcontract entered into by it in relation to this Agreement places the same obligations about Personal Information on the subcontractor as this clause 23 places on the Organisation.
The Organisation must, in carrying out this Agreement, comply with the provisions of any and all relevant Laws, and requirements of any Commonwealth, State, Territory or local authority (including any Proper Authority), and any policies notified to the Organisation in writing by the Commonwealth.
BCII Act and OHS Accreditation Scheme
The provisions of this clause 24.2 only apply if the total amount of the Funds is:
In the performance of the Project (including the Works), the Organisation must comply, and must ensure that the Project Parties comply, with the Code and the Implementation Guidelines.
The Organisation must ensure that:
all requests for tender, expressions of interest, submissions and invitations to join common use arrangements in relation to the Works made by it or any of the Project Parties contain the commitment to apply the Code and the Implementation Guidelines set out in the model tender documents referred to in the Implementation Guidelines; and  
all contracts entered into in relation to the Works by it, or any of the Project Parties, contain the commitment to apply the Code and the Guidelines as set out in the model contract clauses referred to in the Implementation Guidelines.
;
The Organisation must ensure that all head contracts for building work in relation to the Project that are valued at three million dollars ($3,000,000) or more are:
notified to the Office of the Federal Safety Commissioner at the earliest possible opportunity (that is, when approaching the market); and
contain a requirement that the subcontractor:

is accredited under the OHS Accreditation Scheme;
maintains the OHS Accreditation Scheme accreditation for the life of the contract; and
complies with all conditions of the OHS Accreditation Scheme.
The Organisation must maintain, adequate records of compliance by it and each of the Project Parties with the Code, the Implementation Guidelines and the OHS Accreditation Scheme in relation to the Project (including the Works).
The Organisation must permit, the Commonwealth and those authorised by the Commonwealth, including a person occupying a position in the Office of the Australian Building and Construction Commissioner full access to the premises and records of the Organisation and the Project Parties to:
inspect any work, material, machinery, appliance, article or facility;
inspect and copy any record relevant to the Works, the Project or this Agreement; and
interview any person;
as is necessary to monitor compliance with the Code and the Implementation Guidelines.
The Organisation undertakes that it, and each of the Project Parties, will agree to a request from the Commonwealth, including a person occupying a position in the Office of the Australian Building and Construction Commissioner to produce a specified document within a specified period in person, by fax or by post.
The Commonwealth and those persons authorised by it may publish or otherwise disclose information in relation to compliance by the Organisation and the Project Parties, with the Code and the Implementation Guidelines.
The Organisation must obtain the consent of the Project Parties to the publication or disclosure of information under this clause.
The Organisation must not appoint a contractor, subcontractor or consultant in relation to the Project where:
the appointment would breach a sanction imposed by the Minister for Employment and Workplace Relations or;
the contactors, subcontractor or consultant has had a judicial decision against them relating to employee entitlements, not including decisions under appeal, and has not paid the claim

While acknowledging that value for money is the core principle underpinning decisions on Government procurement, when assessing tenders the Organisation may preference contractors, subcontractors and consultants that have a demonstrated commitment to:
adding and/or retaining trainees and apprentices;
increasing the participation of women in all aspects of the industry; or
promoting employment and training opportunities for Indigenous Australians in regions where significant indigenous populations exist.
The Organisation must ensure that all subcontracts impose obligations on the subcontractors equivalent to the obligations under this clause 24.2.
Subject to clause 25.2, the Parties agree not to commence any legal proceedings in respect of any dispute arising under this Agreement, which has not been resolved by informal discussion, until the procedure provided by this clause 25 has been followed.
The Parties agree that any dispute arising during the course of this Agreement will be dealt with as follows:
the Party claiming that there is a dispute will send the other a written notice setting out the nature of the dispute;
the Parties will try to resolve the dispute through direct negotiation, including by referring the matter to persons who have the authority to intervene and direct some form of resolution; and
if within 30 Business Days from the date of the notice issued under clause 25.1(b)(i):
there is no resolution of the dispute;
there is no agreement on submission of the dispute to mediation or some alternative dispute resolution procedure; or
there is a submission to mediation or some other form of alternative dispute resolution procedure, but there is no resolution within 15 Business Days of the submission, or within such further extended time as the Parties may agree to extend in writing before the expiration of the 15 Business Days;
then, either Party may commence legal proceedings.
Clause 25.1 does not apply where:
either Party commences legal proceedings for urgent interlocutory relief;
action is taken by the Commonwealth under, or purportedly under, clauses 8, 13, 18 or 19; or
an authority of the Commonwealth, a State or Territory (including a Proper Authority) is investigating a breach or suspected breach of the Law by the Organisation.
Despite the existence of a dispute, both Parties must continue to perform their respective obligations under this Agreement, unless directed otherwise by the Commonwealth in accordance with clause 25.3(b).
If directed and notified in writing by the Commonwealth to do so, the Organisation must cease performing the obligations of the Organisation under this Agreement which are specified in the Commonwealth's notice until the Commonwealth issues a further written notice to the Organisation directing it to resume performance of those obligations.
In this clause 26, GST, Input Tax Credits, Tax Invoice and Taxable Supply have the meaning given to those terms in the A New Tax System (Goods and Services Tax) Act 1999.
Subject to this clause 26, all taxes, duties and government charges (Taxes) imposed or levied in Australia or overseas in connection with this Agreement or the payment of the Funds must be paid by the Organisation, or as the Organisation might arrange.
The Organisation acknowledges and agrees that the Funds payable under this Agreement include an amount in respect of GST on any Taxable Supplies under this Agreement.
The Organisation is responsible for claiming all Input Tax Credits to which it is entitled related to this Agreement.
If any Taxable Supplies are made under this Agreement, the Organisation must provide the Commonwealth with a Tax Invoice within 20 Business Days of the Taxable Supply being made, unless the Milestone Schedule states otherwise.
A Party giving notice under this Agreement must do so in writing, that is:
directed to the other Party's contact person and address as specified in Item 7 of Schedule 1; and
hand delivered, sent by pre-paid post or facsimile to that address.
A notice given in accordance with clause 27.1(a) is received:
if hand delivered, on delivery;
if sent by pre-paid post on the third Business Day after the date of posting; and
if sent by facsimile, at the time the sender receives notification that the notice has been transmitted satisfactorily.
Termination or expiry of this Agreement for any reason does not extinguish or otherwise affect:
any rights of either Party against the other which:
accrued prior to the time of termination or expiry; or
otherwise relate to or may arise at any future time from any breach of non-observance of obligations under this Agreement which arose prior to the time of termination or expiry; and
the provisions of this Agreement which by their nature survive expiry or termination, including clauses 4.2, 11.8, 13, 13.6, 18.2, 18.3, 19, 20, 21, 23 and 27.8.
This Agreement is to be interpreted in accordance with the Laws of the jurisdiction in which the Project is undertaken.
Each party irrevocably submits to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of the courts of the Australian Capital Territory.
This Agreement may only be varied by a document signed by each Party.
A failure to exercise or enforce, or a delay in exercising or enforcing, or the partial exercise of enforcement of, a right, power or remedy provided by Law, in equity or under this Agreement by a Party does not preclude, or operate as a waiver of, the exercise or enforcement, or further exercise or enforcement, of that or any other right, power or remedy provided by Law or under this Agreement.
A waiver, approval or consent given by a Party under this Agreement is only effective and binding on that Party if it is given or confirmed in writing by that Party.
No waiver of a breach of a term or condition of this Agreement operates as a waiver of another breach of that term or condition, or as a waiver of a breach of any other term or condition of this Agreement.
If, at any time, any provision of this Agreement is or becomes illegal, invalid or unenforceable in any respect under the Law in any jurisdiction, that will not affect or impair the legality, validity or enforceability of any other provision of this Agreement, or the legality, validity or enforceability of that provision or any other provision of this Agreement in any other jurisdiction.
Except as expressly provided for under this Agreement, a Party cannot assign, novate or otherwise transfer any of its rights or obligations under this Agreement without the prior consent of the other Party.
The Organisation is not by virtue of this Agreement, or for any purpose, an officer, employee, partner or agent of the Commonwealth, or invested with any power or authority to bind or represent the Commonwealth.
The Organisation must not represent itself and must ensure that its officers, employees, agents and subcontractors do not represent themselves, as being an officer, employee, partner or agent of the Commonwealth, or as otherwise able to bind or represent the Commonwealth.
If during the Term of this Agreement, a Conflict arises, or appears likely to arise the Organisation must:
immediately notify the Commonwealth in writing of the Conflict making a full disclosure of all relevant information relating to the Conflict and setting out the steps the Organisation proposes to take to resolve or otherwise deal with the Conflict; and
take such steps as the Commonwealth may reasonably require to resolve or otherwise deal with that Conflict.
The Organisation must comply with each special condition set out in Item 12 of Schedule 1.
A breach by the Organisation of a special condition constitutes a fundamental breach of this Agreement.
The Organisation represents and warrants to the Commonwealth that:
if it is a body corporate, it is duly incorporated in accordance with the Law of its place of  incorporation, validly exists under that Law and has the capacity to sue or be sued in its own name and to own its property and conduct its business as it is being conducted; 

it has full power and authority to enter into, perform and observe its obligations under this Agreement;

the execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement has been duly and validly authorised by the Organisation;

this Agreement constitutes valid and legally binding obligations on it and is enforceable against it by the Commonwealth in accordance with its terms;

each authorisation from, and filing and registration with, a government agency necessary to enable it to unconditionally execute and deliver and comply with its obligations under this Agreement and carry on its principal business or activity has been obtained, effected and complied with;

the unconditional execution and delivery of, and compliance with its obligations by it under this Agreement do not:

contravene any Law to which it or any of its property is subject or any order or directive from a Proper Authority binding on it or any of its property;

contravene its constituent documents;
contravene any agreement or instrument to which it is a party;
contravene any obligation of it to any other person; or
require it to make any payment or delivery in respect of any financial indebtedness before the scheduled date for that payment or delivery;

no litigation, arbitration, mediation, conciliation or administrative proceedings are taking place, pending, or to the knowledge of any of its officers after due inquiry, are threatened which, if adversely decided, could have an adverse effect on its ability to perform its obligations under this Agreement;

unless otherwise disclosed in this Agreement, it is not entering into this Agreement as trustee of any trust or settlement;

it has not made any false declaration in respect of any current or past dealings with the Commonwealth or any Proper Authority, including in any tender or application process or in any agreement;

it has had no significant deficiency in the performance of any substantive requirement or obligation under any prior agreement with the Commonwealth or any Proper Authority which would adversely affect its ability to perform this Agreement;

it has, and will continue to have and to use, the skills, qualifications and experience, including Specified Personnel, to perform the Project in an efficient and controlled manner with a high degree of quality and responsiveness and to a standard that complies with this Agreement; 

it has and will continue to have skilled, qualified and experienced Specified Personnel who are capable of performing the Project in accordance with this Agreement; and

it has and will continue to have the necessary resources to perform the Project and will use those resources to perform the Project.
The interpretation of any statement contained in any representation or warranty will not be restricted by reference to or inference from any other statement contained in any other representation or warranty.
The Organisation acknowledges that the Commonwealth in entering into this Agreement is relying on the warranties and representations contained in this Agreement.
The Organisation must carry out, or arrange for the carrying out of the following Works:
If Option B or C is chosen, list the nature of the Works.
The Organisation must provide the following Project Documents:

drawings and specifications for the Works which contain sufficient details and definition to enable a competent builder to construct the Works without further determination as to form, quality or quantity; and

a site plan including ingress and egress arrangements for pedestrians and motor vehicles.
The Project Documents required will depend on the nature of the Works being conducted.
You will need to determine what documents are required for each Project.
The Organisation must commence the Works within insert number months after the Date of this Agreement.
The Completion Date is the date that is insert number Business Days after the Commonwealth has received the operations phase Final Report referred to in Item 5 of this Schedule 1 and all deliverables required under this Agreement.
The Organisation must provide the following Reports from the Date of this Agreement until the Date for Practical Completion in accordance with the requirements set out below:
The Construction Phase Reports Schedule is specific to each Project and will need to be reviewed on an individual basis.
The details in the Report Schedule below may assist identifying relevant Reports.
A construction final report is normally required.
If the required thresholds are met, each of the Reports in the Construction Phase need to include whether the Organisation has met its obligations in clause 24.2 up to the date of each Report.
A report on the status of the Works and the progress against the Project Plan once accepted in accordance with clause 3.1(c)(i) in a format specified by the Commonwealth, any material change in the Works that may result in a delay in the Works reaching Practical Completion on the Date for Practical Completion, and whether, if the required thresholds are met, the Organisation has met its obligations under clause 24.2 up to the date of the Report.
insert date

Should the Project be delayed for any reason, a report on the status of the Works and the progress against the Project Plan accepted in accordance with clause 3.1(c)(i) in a format specified by the Commonwealth, including whether, if the required thresholds are met, the Organisation has met its obligations under clause 24.2 up to the date of the Report.
A construction phase final report including a report on the expenditure of the Funds for the purposes of the Project and how the Project Aim  and Program Objectives been supported by the completion of the Works, including whether, if the required thresholds are met the Organisation met its obligations in clause 24.2.
Within insert number months after the date that the Organisation achieves Practical Completion of the Works in accordance with clause 4.9

The Organisation must provide the following Reports from the Date of Practical Completion until the Completion Date in accordance with the requirements set out below:
The Operations Phase Reports Schedule is specific to each Project and will need to be reviewed on an individual basis.
The details in the Report Schedule below may assist identifying relevant Reports.
An operations phase final report is normally required 

An annual report reporting on operational details including a description of the health care services delivered and the policies, practices and processes used to deliver those services as they relate to the Project Aim and Program Objectives up to the date of the first anniversary of the Date for Practical Completion.
The first annual report within insert number Business Days after the first anniversary of the Date for Practical Completion.
An annual report reporting on operational details including a description of the health care services delivered and the policies, practices and processes used to deliver those services as they relate to the Project Aim and  Program Objectives up to the date of the second anniversary of the Date for Practical Completion.
The second annual report within insert number Business Days after the second anniversary of the Date for Practical Completion.
An operations phase final report, including a comprehensive report on whether the objectives and outcomes of the Project were achieved and if not, why not, and a copy of the Assets register.
Within insert number months of the expiry of the Designated Use Period, or within insert number months of the earlier termination of this Agreement

The maximum amount of Funds payable by the Commonwealth under this Agreement will be $insert amount (inclusive of GST) or the lesser amount required to complete the Project.
The Organisation provides evidence of tenure over the Property that is satisfactory to the Commonwealth in accordance with clause 6.3(a).
The Organisation provides certificates of currency in accordance with clause 21.2 in respect of the insurances required under Item 9.1 of Schedule 1.
Within insert number Business Days of the Date of this Agreement.
The Organisation notifies the Commonwealth of the personal details of the Project Manager in accordance with clause 4.2.
Within insert number Business Days of the Date of that appointment.
The Organisation provides the Project Documents in accordance with clause 3.3(b) and Item 1.3.
The Organisation provides certificates of currency in accordance with clause 21.2 in respect of the insurances required under Item 9.2 of Schedule 1.
Within insert number Business Days of the Date of this Agreement.
$insert amount (inclusive of GST)

The Organisation provides certificates of currency in accordance with clause 21.2 in respect of the insurances required under Item 9.3 of Schedule 1.
Within insert number Business Days of the achievement of Practical Completion.
The Milestone Schedule is specific to each Project and will need to be reviewed on an individual basis.
The details in the above Milestone Schedule may assist identifying relevant Milestones.
and the Organisation must ensure that the policy specified in this Item 9.2(a) notes the interest of the Commonwealth;
products liability policy covering legal liability (including liability assumed under contract) for loss or damage to property or injury or death to persons arising out of or in connection with carrying out the Works, for the sum of twenty million dollars ($20,000,000) per claim, or per occurrence giving rise to a claim;
if asbestos decontamination work is required as part of the Works, an asbestos liability policy in respect of the risks associated with asbestos decontamination work, for the sum of twenty million dollars ($20,000,000) per claim, or per occurrence giving rise to a claim; 
professional indemnity insurance, covering liability for any act, error or omission arising out of or in any way connected with the design elements of the Project.
The professional indemnity insurance policy must have a limit of indemnity for an amount of not less than one million dollars ($1,000,000) per claim, or occurrence giving rise to claim.
The policy must:
cover claims under the Trade Practices Act 1974, Fair Trading Act 1992 (ACT) and any similar legislation in any other State or Territory; and
include at least one automatic right of reinstatement of the sum insured; and
the Organisation must ensure that each professional service provider identified in the table below, holds a professional indemnity policy in the amount specified in respect of that professional service provider in the table below, to cover its liability for breach of professional duty (if applicable) arising out of any negligence, whether in relation to errors in design, documentation, supervision or other professional duties.
Such cover must extend to liability for personal injury, illness or death of anyone in connection with the provision of professional services or as a result of breach of professional duty: 

The total amount of the Organisation's contribution must be fully set out in the Project Budget submitted by the Organisation in accordance with clauses 3.1(a) and (b) and must be made, or agreed to be made, on or before the Commonwealth notifies the Organisation that the Project Budget is acceptable to the Commonwealth.
The Project Budget submitted by the Organisation in accordance with clauses 3.1(a) and (b) must set out details of all other contributions the Organisation will make or receive from a third party.
The Organisation must acquire the following Assets with the Funds:

The following special conditions apply for the purposes of this Agreement:
Insert relevant special conditions to cover specific issues or important matters of a particular nature.
If none, the words "None stated"

The Organisation is required to provide financial security in accordance with clause 6.5.
The financial security must be in the amount of insert amount.
The Organisation is required to provide other securities in accordance with clause 6.6 as follows: 
The insert name of other security must be in the form of insert form required.
The insert name of other security must be in the form of insert form required.
If no other security is required, delete paragraphs (a) and (b) and insert the words "None required". 


GEO INSTRUMENTS will provide the services described and detailed in the documents annexed hereto, a list of which is contained in Schedule 3 hereto and which are herein called "the Specifications" and upon the terms and conditions set out below and such additional services as may be agreed in writing by GEO INSTRUMENTS and the CLIENT.
This Agreement shall remain in full force and effect until completion of the said services unless terminated at an earlier date by either party hereto in accordance with the provisions contained in clause 10 hereto.
GEO INSTRUMENTS shall not be liable to the CLIENT for any loss or damage, consequential or otherwise, suffered by the CLIENT either during the continuance of this Agreement or subsequent, if by force majeure (as defined in clause 4 (d)) GEO INSTRUMENTS is rendered unable, wholly or in part, to carry out its obligations under this Agreement, or is delayed in its operation to be performed pursuant to this Agreement.
If a force majeure substantially prohibits performance by GEO INSTRUMENTS of its obligations or the carrying out of its operations pursuant to this Agreement within any period herein specified or implied GEO INSTRUMENTS hereby agrees to give written notice to the CLIENT of the particulars of the force majeure within a reasonable time of its happening and to further use due diligence to remove the effects of such force majeure.
In the event of the force majeure not being removed within that number of days of the date of occurrence thereof specified in Schedule 4 hereto, then either party may by notice in writing determine this Agreement and thereafter no party shall be under any further obligation to the other party, except that GEO INSTRUMENTS will supply to the CLIENT all information acquired to the date of the existence of the force majeure, and will be paid in full for its services rendered to the date of the existence of the force majeure in the manner provided hereinbefore.
The term "force majeure" shall include but not be limited to fire, floods, storms and other damage of the elements, strikes, riots and civil disturbances, acts of God, acts of the enemy including but not limited to wars, blockades or insurrections, or direct legislative or administrative interference or any acts whatsoever by the Government of the Commonwealth of Australia or by the Government of the State or Territory where GEO INSTRUMENTS is at the material time or times carrying out the services for the CLIENT pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement and any other cause whether of the kind specifically enumerated above or otherwise which is not reasonably within the control of GEO INSTRUMENTS but shall not include a party's lack of finance.
GEO INSTRUMENTS is acting pursuant to its obligations under this Agreement as an independent contractor for the CLIENT and not as a servant, agent or employee of the CLIENT and the CLIENT has no right to control the manner or mode of the performance by GEO INSTRUMENTS of its duties and obligations hereunder.
GEO INSTRUMENTS will during the continuance of this Agreement save and hold harmless the CLIENT from all suits, claims, causes of action, liability and damages, brought, aserted or recovered against the CLIENT, including the amount of the CLIENT's reasonable legal costs (on a party basis) associated therewith, arising out of any deliberate or negligent act or omission of GEO INSTRUMENTS in the performance of its duties and obligations pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement.
GEO INSTRUMENTS will during the continuance of this Agreement maintain in full force and effect insurance against risks to persons and property which may occur in the course of providing any services under this Agreement, including Public Liability and Workers' Compensation Insurance to the maxima specified in Schedule 5 hereof and will deliver to the CLIENT, if so requested by the CLIENT in writing, copies of relevant policies endorsed to enable the CLIENT to make claim thereunder and proof of payment of relevant premiums.
In the event of the CLIENT not paying in full any account rendered to it by GEO INSTRUMENTS for any payment due and payable pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement within thirty (30) days of the date of the invoiced account and remaining in default for ten days after receipt of a written notice from GEO INSTRUMENTS claiming payment and threatening termination or further in the event of the CLIENT neglecting or refusing to comply with or perform any other obligation, condition or warranty contained in this Agreement within ten (10) days of the date of receipt of written notice from GEO INSTRUMENTS requesting same, GEO INSTRUMENTS shall immediately thereafter be entitled to terminate this Agreement and be at liberty to pursue such other remedies at law as are applicable.
GEO INSTRUMENTS hereby agrees that any confidential documents and information provided to it by the CLIENT to enable it to perform its obligations and duties under this Agreement shall be held in confidence by GEO INSTRUMENTS until such time as it is in the public domain and may be utilised solely for the performance of its obligations and duties hereunder and shall be returned to the CLIENT upon receipt by GEO INSTRUMENTS of a written request for same AND GEO INSTRUMENTS further agrees and acknowledges that all specifications, results, data materials and maps relating to the services to be provided hereunder are the sole property of the CLIENT AND FURTHER GEO INSTRUMENTS shall use their best endeavours to ensure that its lawful employees, agents and contractors shall not without the prior written consent of the CLIENT retain for its or their own use, duplicate or disclose to any third party any such said confidential documents and information.
The CLIENT hereby agrees that any confidential documents, programmes, processes or materials which do not incorporate any part of the CLIENT'S documents, programmes, processes or materials used by GEO INSTRUMENTS better to perform its obligations and duties under this Agreement shall be held at all material times in confidence by the CLIENT AND the CLIENT further agrees that it shall use its best endeavours to ensure that its lawful employees, agents and contractors shall not without the prior written consent of GEO INSTRUMENTS duplicate or disclose to any third party any such confidential documents or information as hereinbefore described.
The CLIENT may by written notice to GEO INSTRUMENTS request changes in the manner and mode of service to be rendered by GEO INSTRUMENTS hereunder and in the event that any such said changes causes either an increase or a decrease in the cost of the said service and, or in the alternative, in the time required for the proper performance of the said service, GEO INSTRUMENTS shall within thirty (30) days of the date of receipt of the said notice requesting the change, formally notify the CLIENT in writing of its claim, if any, for any adjustment to be made to either the charges to be rendered hereunder and, or in the alternative, to the time required to perform and complete the said service and PROVIDED THAT such said request is fair and reasonable in the circumstances then the provisions of this Agreement shall thereby be deemed to be amended to that extent PROVIDED HOWEVER that any such said change shall not permit or excuse GEO INSTRUMENTS from continuing to perform its duties and obligations hereunder in a timely and orderly manner.
Save as provided in clause 7, the CLIENT hereby acknowledges that the issuance of any information, advice, approvals or instructions by any of its technical personnel or representatives shall be deemed to be expressions of personal opinions only and shall not affect either GEO INSTRUMENTS' or the CLIENT's rights and duties hereunder unless the same shall be in writing and in accordance with the provisions of clause 8(a).
No failure on the part of either party to exercise, nor any delay in exercising, any right or remedy under any provision of this Agreement shall operate as a waiver thereof; nor shall any single or partial exercise of, or failure to exercise, any right or remedy prevent any further or other exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right or remedy.
This Agreement may be terminated upon thirty (30) days written notice by the CLIENT hereto.
Upon receipt by GEO INSTRUMENTS of such written notice as referred to in clause 10(a) GEO INSTRUMENTS shall within sixty (60) days of the date of termination furnish the CLIENT with its claim for all work performed by it prior to the date of termination including the costs of acquisition and processing and mobilisation and demobilisation.
Upon payment by the CLIENT to GEO INSTRUMENTS of its claim as referred to in clause 10(b) GEO INSTRUMENTS shall provide the CLIENT with all completed programmes, reports, data diagrams and other materials generated and obtained during and in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.
In the event of any dispute or difference arising between the parties hereto, either whilst this Agreement is in effect, or after the determination or abandonment or breach of this Agreement, as to construction of this Agreement, or as to any matter or thing whatsoever arising hereunder or in connection herewith, then either party may give to the other notice in writing of such dispute or difference and requiring the same be submitted to arbitration under this clause.
Forthwith after giving of such a notice, the parties shall consult in order to agree upon two arbitrators and, within seven (7) days of the date on which the notice is received the dispute shall be referred to arbitration by the two arbitrators, one selected by each party.
In the event of disagreement between the two arbitrators so selected, the dispute shall be decided by an umpire selected by the said two arbitrators.
An award made by the arbitrators or umpire under this clause shall be final and binding on the parties.
Any such arbitrators or umpire shall have power not only to determine the strict legal rights of the parties, but also to determine what is fair and reasonable that should be done by both or either of them in the circumstances, and in particular to fix or render certain and definite anything which is, as provided herein, vague, uncertain or indefinite; and such arbitrators or umpire shall have power to give directions in relation to the matter being arbitrated to both or either parties hereto and such party/parties shall promptly give effect to any such direction.
This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of N.S.W.
and the parties hereto submit to the jurisdiction of the courts of that State and any courts competent to hear appeals therefrom.
If at any time any provision of this Agreement is, or becomes illegal, invalid or unenforceable in any respect under the law of any jurisdiction, that provision shall be deemed severable from the rest of this Agreement and neither the legality, validity or enforceability of the remaining provisions hereof, nor the legality, validity or enforceability of such provision under the law of any other jurisdiction shall in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
GEO INSTRUMENTS will take full responsibility for its own tax obligations.
Any stamp duty payable on this Agreement shall be born and paid by the CLIENT.
Any notice, request, consent, demand or other communication to be given to any party hereto shall be deemed to be duly given to that party if it is in writing addressed to that party and either delivered at or sent by registered post or pre-paid recorded delivery service to the address of that party hereinbefore stated or to such other address as that party has advised in writing is appropriate.
Any such notice, request, consent, demand or communication shall be deemed duly prepared by a party if it is signed or purports to be signed on behalf 
of that party by a principal of that party or by its manager or secretary or one of its directors or any other responsible officer thereof and such notice, request, consent, demand or communication if sent by post shall be deemed to have been received three (3) working days after it was posted.
This Agreement together with the Specifications contain the complete and final agreement between GEO INSTRUMENTS and the CLIENT in relation to the subject matter hereof AND IT IS HEREBY AGREED AND DECLARED that there are no conditions, warranties, promises, representations or obligations, written or oral, express or implied, which in any way purport to modify the terms and conditions hereof which shall be binding in any way upon the parties.
This Agreement shall not be varied except by instrument in writing duly executed by the parties hereto.
Except to the extent that such interpretation shall be excluded by or be repugnant to the context:

In the event that there is more than one party named in Schedule 2, every covenant or agreement expressed or implied in this Agreement shall bind all such parties jointly and each of them severally and each provision expressed or implied in this Agreement which applies to more parties than one shall apply to such parties and every two or more of them jointly and each of them severally;

the word "person" shall include corporation;

words importing the singular or plural number shall include the plural and singular number respectively and words importing a particular gender only shall include all genders.


their joint responsibility in contributing to the development and maintenance of a nation-wide capability to counter terrorism;
the Commonwealth has an important national role and coordination responsibility to counter terrorism; and
the importance of cooperating fully to ensure that the Purpose is met.
The Commonwealth, States and Territories recognise:
State and Territory governments and their agencies have primary operational responsibility for dealing with a terrorist situation in their jurisdiction;
Commonwealth agencies have a role in a terrorist situation and will support the States and Territories as appropriate;
the Commonwealth will consult and seek agreement from the affected States and Territories before any national terrorist situation is declared and States and Territories agree not to withhold unreasonably such agreement;
the Commonwealth has responsibility in a declared national terrorist situation for determining policy and broad strategies in close consultation with affected States and Territories;
a national terrorist situation means those events declared to be a national terrorist situation, to include attacks on Commonwealth targets, multi-jurisidictional attacks, threats against civil aviation and those involving chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear materials; and
arrangements for a response to a national terrorist situation will recognise the operational integrity of, and will not inhibit effective response or consequence management by, State and Territory governments and their agencies.
The Commonwealth, States and Territories will:
take whatever action is necessary to ensure that terrorists can be prosecuted under relevant criminal law; and
review their legislation and counter-terrorism arrangements to make sure that they are sufficiently strong in support of the Purpose.
The Commonwealth, States and Territories will continue to:
improve Australia's counter-terrorist intelligence capability and to develop effective means for sharing intelligence; and
significantly upgrade the central coordination capability so that the operational arms of the Commonwealth, States and Territories can obtain the information and strategic advice necessary to respond rapidly and effectively.
To assist in this, all jurisdictions will apply appropriate standards and arrangements for the protection of national security information.
Commonwealth, States and Territories agree that the existing SAC-PAV will be reconstituted as the NCTC with a broader mandate to cover prevention and consequence management issues and with ministerial oversight arrangements.
The NCTC will be a high-level national body comprising representatives from the Commonwealth, States and Territories.
The NCTC will implement the framework set out in this Agreement including:

maintaining the National Counter-Terrorism Plan (NCTP) and associated documentation;
providing expert strategic and policy advice to heads of government and other relevant ministers;
coordinating an effective nation-wide counter-terrorist capability;
maintaining effective arrangements for the sharing of relevant intelligence and information between all relevant agencies in all jurisdictions; and
providing advice in relation to the administration of the special fund referred to in 5.2 below.
The NCTC will report annually to the Prime Minister, Premiers and Chief Ministers to facilitate ministerial oversight of the NCTC by the Council of Australian Governments (COAG).
The appropriateness of continued ministerial oversight of the NCTC by COAG will be reviewed by COAG in 2005.
There will be a review of the national counter-terrorism arrangements every three years.
The National Counter-Terrorism Plan (NCTP) sets out Australia's high-level strategy in preventing, and dealing with, acts of terrorism in Australia and its territories.
It will be the primary document on Australia's national counter-terrorism policy and arrangements.
The NCTP will be supported by documentation, including a handbook, that sets out in detail the procedures, structures and coordination arrangements necessary to ensure the prevention, response, investigation and management of the consequences of terrorism on a national basis.
This Agreement commences to operate immediately upon its execution by the Parties.
This Agreement may be varied from time to time by the unanimous agreement of the Parties.
A variation pursuant to this clause will be in writing, signed by all Parties to this Agreement, and notice thereof will immediately following such signature be given to all the Parties.
A Party to this Agreement may, by written notice to all other Parties, withdraw from this Agreement and such notice will take effect six months from the date of that notice.
This Agreement may be terminated at any time by agreement in writing by all the Parties and under any terms and conditions as agreed by all the Parties.
The objectives of the NCTC are to contribute to the security of the Australian community through:

providing expert strategic and policy advice to heads of government and other relevant ministers.
This will be achieved by:

effective counter-terrorism coordination through inter-jurisdictional and inter-agency cooperation;
development of evaluation and reporting methodologies to facilitate the annual reporting process;
reviewing current and emerging trends in terrorism;
reviewing, monitoring and advising on the adequacy of Australia's counter-terrorism legislation;
reviewing, monitoring and advising on the adequacy of Australia's counter-terrorism strategies and policies to ensure best practice; and
providing advice on the administration of the special fund.
ensuring an effective nation-wide counter-terrorism capability is maintained by:

developing strong cooperative relationships between all parties;
a standardised jurisdictional and cross-jurisdictional response capacity;
effective arrangements for the sharing of intelligence;
monitoring national standards in all training disciplines to achieve best practice;
effective command, control and coordination strategies;
consequence management plans to effectively counter terrorism; and
availability of appropriate systems and equipment;

reporting annually to the Prime Minister, Premiers and Chief Ministers on Australia's counter-terrorism preparedness and capability.
The NCTC will be a high-level national body comprising representatives from the Commonwealth, States and Territories.
While the members of the NCTC represent their respective governments, the NCTC itself will be responsible to all participating governments.
New Zealand will be invited in an observer capacity.
The Commonwealth will provide secretariat and executive support.
Meetings will be held in the States and Territories in rotation and be chaired by a representative of the host government.
The Commonwealth will co-chair meetings of the NCTC and a senior Commonwealth representative will act on behalf of the NCTC for matters requiring urgent out-of-session consideration.
Persons attending meetings of the NCTC will have a minimum SECRET national security clearance.
There will be a review of the national counter-terrorism arrangements every three years.
The NCTC will adopt a constitution governing its operation.
The term of the lease shall be from ___________ to _____________(date).
If in the opinion of the Lessee, the horse in question is not satisfactory for any reason, the Lessee may terminate the lease with one weeks notice to the Lessor and return the horse in question to them at their address.
The purposes for which the Lessee may use the horse in question are as follows -
Preparation and training of the horse in _____________________________________ 
	_______________________________(disciplines) and other associated activities.
The horse in question shall not be used for any other purpose without the consent of the Lessor.
The Lessee at their own expense shall provide the horse in question with proper feed, stabling, paddocking and care and shall do all that is reasonably necessary to keep the horse in question in sound health and condition, including the provision as required of all necessary veterinary treatment by a Veterinary Surgeon of his / her choice.
During the term of this lease, the Lessee shall have absolute discretion and control in and over all matters connected with the horse in question.
This applies to the purposes mentioned above including the entering of competitions and shall pay all expenses in connection with such matters, including registration and entry fees and be entitled to retain the prize money.
Entries for all competitions shall be made in the name of the Lessor as owner and the Lessee as rider, unless the Lessor agrees to the nomination of another rider at the request of the Lessee.
The Lessee shall not assign his / her interest in the horse in question under this agreement or lend or part with the possession of the horse, without the consent of the Lessor being obtained first.
The Lessee acknowledges having inspected and ridden the horse in question and that he / she has relied upon his / her own judgement, in deciding to lease the horse from the Lessor.
The Lessor shall not be liable for any injuries or damage suffered by the Lessee caused by the horse in question, whether ridden by the Lessee or not.
Upon completion of the term of the lease, the Lessee shall return the horse in question to the Lessor together with the Certificate of Registration with the Equestrian Federation of Australia and all relevant performance cards.
The Lessee must be a current financial Senior or Junior member of the			EFA
The original copy of this agreement must be lodged with the EFA office		 and both parties are to hold a copy of the agreement.
Only an EFA Lease Agreement lodged with EFA, is recognised by the EFA
Both parties must notify the EFA in writing on termination of the lease, or		  if the lease is being renewed.



The University agrees to conduct the Research in accordance with this Agreement.
The Parties will supply the Resources required to conduct the Research as set out in Items 4 and 5 of the Schedule.
The Parties agree that this Agreement shall commence on the Commencement Date and, unless extended or terminated earlier in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement, will remain in effect for the Term.
Each Party acknowledges and agrees that it will not have any claim, ownership or interest in the other Party's Background Intellectual Property or Improvements in such Background Intellectual Property.
Each Party grants to the other Party a non-exclusive, royalty-free licence to use its Background Intellectual Property for the purpose of carrying out the Research.
In consideration of the rights granted in this Agreement, it is agreed and acknowledged by the Parties that the University is and will be at all times the owner of the Program IP.
The University grants to Abbreviation a non-exclusive, royalty free, worldwide, perpetual licence to use the Program IP for the purpose of internal research and education.
Abbreviation acknowledges that the University shall own all rights and interests any methods and techniques, to the extent such methods and techniques do not form not part of Background Intellectual Property or Improvements, which are used in connection with the Research.
The University does not warrant that the Program Intellectual Property or Research or any part thereof is or will be valid or of any commercial value.
All such warranties, including those of merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose are excluded.
The University does not warrant that the manufacture, sale, marketing or other dealing or use of the Program Intellectual Property or any products derived from the Research are not or will not be an infringement of the rights of third parties.
Abbreviation warrants that:
it will not use the name of the University in any manner unless specifically approved by the University, in writing.
it will not use, nor allow, explicitly or implicitly, the use by third parties, of the University of Melbourne name and logo on any Products.
it will do all things reasonably within its capacity to ensure that the University is not exposed to any liabilities that might arise directly or indirectly as a consequence of using the Research, Program Intellectual Property or any Products.
The Parties shall at all times indemnify and hold harmless each other and their respective Personnel from and against any loss (including legal costs and expenses), or liability, which is incurred or suffered by the other Party or their respective Personnel arising from any claim, suit, demand, action or proceeding where such loss or liability was directly caused by the unlawful or negligent act or omission of the other Party or its Personnel in connection with this Agreement.
A Party's liability to indemnify the other under this Clause shall be reduced proportionally to the extent that any unlawful or negligent act or omission of the other Party or its Personnel contributed to the loss or liability.
The indemnity in this Clause shall survive the expiration or termination of this Agreement.
The Receiving Party must:
keep all Confidential Information of the Disclosing Party confidential unless strictly required otherwise by law;
limit access to those of its employees or agents reasonably requiring the Confidential Information on a strictly need to know basis for the Research;
not use Confidential Information in any way that would be harmful to the best interests of the Disclosing Party;
not use any Confidential Information in any way other than for the Research or as otherwise contemplated by this Agreement without the prior written permission of the Disclosing Party;
not copy, in whole or in part, any Confidential Information without the prior written permission of the Disclosing Party; and
ensure that all Personnel to whom Confidential Information is disclosed are legally bound under the terms and conditions of their employment agreements or otherwise to keep the Confidential Information confidential and not to use the Confidential Information except for the Research.
Confidential Information excludes, or as the case requires, ceases to include information, which is, or becomes:
available to the public at the date of its disclosure to the Receiving Party;
at the date of its disclosure to the Receiving Party, already properly in the possession of the Receiving Party in written form otherwise than by prior confidential disclosure from the Disclosing Party;
after the date of its disclosure to the Receiving Party, available to the public from sources other than the Receiving Party;
after the date of its disclosure to the Receiving Party, properly available to the Receiving Party from a third party having no obligation of confidentiality to the Disclosing Party;
demonstrated by the Receiving Party to be independently developed by an employee or agent of the Receiving Party having no knowledge of such information the subject of the disclosure;

Publication of Academic Work
Where a student or a member of staff of the University are involved in the Research, the following provisions apply:
subject to this sub-clause 8.1, a student or member of staff of the University may publish the results of any work carried out by that student or staff member;
Abbreviation will not have editorial rights over the content of the written work of the student or staff member;
the University shall not without the prior written consent of Abbreviation publish material that contains Abbreviation's Confidential Information.
Any notice, demand, consent or other communication ("Notice") given or made under this Agreement:
must be in writing and signed by a person duly authorised by the sender;
must either be delivered to the intended recipient by post or by hand or fax to the address or fax number below or the address or fax number last notified by the intended recipient to the sender:
to The University:
The University of Melbourne
Victoria 3010
Attn:  Professor Frank P Larkins
Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Research)
Fax No:	(03) 9347 6883

Parties to negotiate in good faith
If any dispute or difference arises in connection with this Agreement, then the Parties shall negotiate in good faith, using their best endeavours to resolve the dispute or difference.
The Parties are independent contracting parties, and nothing in this Agreement shall make any Party the agent or legal representative of the other for any purpose whatsoever, nor does it grant either Party any authority to assume or to create any obligation on behalf of or in the name of the other.
This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement of the Parties with respect to its subject matter and supersedes all prior oral or written representations and agreements.
If any provision of this Agreement is invalid or unenforceable, such provision(s) shall be deemed deleted but only to the extent necessary and the remaining provisions of this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect.
A waiver of either Party of a breach of any provision of this Agreement does not constitute a waiver of any succeeding breach of the same or any other provision.
Any modification, alteration, change or variation of any term and condition of this Agreement shall be made in writing.
This Agreement is governed by the laws of the State of Victoria and the Commonwealth of Australia.
Each Party submits to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of courts there in connection with matters concerning this Agreement.



Silent Party shall provide the Equipment to the Customer for duration of the Rental Period and the Customer shall pay the Hire Fee to Silent Party.
If the Equipment is not returned to Silent Party by the conclusion of the Rental Period, then the Customer shall pay to Silent Party an additional late fee equal to the Daily Rate multiplied by the number of days (or part of days) following the conclusion of the Hire Period to when the Equipment is returned to Silent Party.
The Customer acknowledges that any Equipment delivery or collection time provided by Silent Party or its agents are approximate only, and late delivery or collection of Equipment does not entitle the Customer to terminate the agreement with Silent Party or to claim any other form or release against Silent Party.
The Customer is responsible for payment of all costs, taxes, charges, imposts and expenses which arise or are incurred by virtue of these Terms and Conditions, including:
duty or stamp duty applicable to rental transactions or rental businesses;
any goods and services tax or taxes in the manner of a goods and services tax;
any other taxes; and
any customs duties or tariffs.
When the Customer has given a credit card or account debit authority to Silent Party, the Customer irrevocably authorises Silent Party to debit all fees and charges payable pursuant to these Terms and Conditions, whether owing at the date of agreement or in the future.
The Hire Fee excludes any addition service fee for the installation of, or training in the use of the Equipment by Silent Party.
The Customer warrants that the Customer:
will pay to Silent Party all fees and charges payable pursuant to these Terms and Conditions and the Hire Schedule, including, without limitation, the Hire Fee, late fees, service fees, delivery costs, collection costs and consumables;
will collect and return Equipment from and to the Delivery Address in a method approved by Silent Party;
will make all reasonable enquiries about the Equipment's fitness for the purposes for which it is hired or used by the Customer and shall determine whether the Equipment is fit for that purpose and is in a condition suitable for use;
will use the Equipment only for the purpose for which it was manufactured or designed and in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions;
will keep the Equipment insured and be responsible for any loss or damage to the Equipment, either by fire, theft vandalism, weather conditions, flood, water or any eventuality whatsoever;
indemnifies Silent Party and holds Silent Party harmless for any loss or damage in fact suffered through the use of the Equipment;
will clean the Equipment and return it to Silent Party in a clean condition, properly maintained in accordance with the manufacturer's recommendations;
will not sell, charge, pledge or part with possession of the Equipment;
will keep the Equipment at the Customer's address specified in the Hire Schedule unless written permission has been obtained from Silent Party to relocate the Equipment;
will keep the Equipment in a careful and proper manner and not interfere or tamper with the Equipment or let anyone else do so;
will return the Equipment in the same packaging material as it was delivered to the Customer in, and acknowledges that Silent Party may charge the Customer for the cost of packaging material that is not returned to Silent Party with the Equipment;
irrevocably authorises and permits Silent Party,  its agents or servants to enter the premises where Equipment is located at all  times in order to inspect the Equipment, to carry out repairs to the Equipment and, after the Conclusion Date, to collect the Equipment;
accepts full responsibility for all of the Equipment, including its use in accordance with any operating instructions provided or other government regulation;
irrevocably indemnifies Silent Party and agrees that the Customer shall be responsible for all costs, charges and other liabilities incurred by Silent Party as a result of the Customer's breach of any of these Terms and Conditions or as a result of Silent Party's enforcement of any of these Terms and Conditions or arising out of or in any way connected with the use of the Equipment.
The Customer will pay the Bond to Silent Party and irrevocably authorises Silent Party to deduct all amounts payable from the Customer to Silent Party pursuant to these Terms and Conditions, including, but not limited to late fees and, repair or replacement costs.
Within seven (7) days from the date that the Equipment is returned to Silent Party, Silent Party will refund the Bond to the Customer, less any deductions made from the Bond pursuant to clause 3.2 of these Terms and Conditions.
Risk in the Equipment passes to the Customer when the Equipment leaves the Delivery Address and returns to Silent Party when the Equipment is delivered to Silent Party at the Delivery Address, and Silent Party accepts the delivery of the Equipment.
From the beginning of the Rental Period, the Customer is responsible for the safekeeping of the Equipment and shall bear the risk of any loss, theft, damage or destruction of the Equipment;
In the event that the Equipment requires repair, the Customer shall pay to Silent Party the costs of any repair, including any delivery or freight charges.
In the event that the Equipment is stolen, destroyed or, in the reasonable opinion of Silent Party damaged beyond repair, the Customer will pay to Silent Party the new replacement cost (as reasonably assessed by Silent Party), including any delivery or freight charges.
In the event that any operating manuals or other material supplied to the Customer is not returned or is stolen, destroyed, defaced or otherwise damaged, the Customer will pay to Silent Party a replacement fee (as reasonably assessed by Silent Party);
In the event that the Equipment does not operate correctly the Customer will immediately notify Silent Party.
Silent Party may, at its option, and for such length of time as it reasonably determines as expedient replace the Equipment with another of such type or model as shall for the time being be available and the Equipment so substituted shall be subject to these Terms and Conditions.
Silent Party is not liable for any defective Equipment that is defective as a result of:
improper use;
operation of the Equipment other than in a manner in accordance with the Equipment's operating manual;
modification of the Equipment by the Customer;
use of the Equipment in an environment or for a purpose other than that for which it was designed; or
the Customer's failure to appropriately store or maintain the Equipment.
Silent Party warrants that each item of Equipment is of merchantable quality and reasonably fit for the purpose for which it was designed.
All other warranties whether express, implied, statutory or otherwise, relating in any way to the subject matter of these Terms and Conditions are excluded.
Where legislation imposes any condition or warranty and that legislation makes void or prohibits provisions in a contract excluding or modifying the application of or the exercise of or liability under such term, such term shall be deemed to be included in these Terms and Conditions.
However, the liability of Silent Party for any breach of such term shall be limited, at the option of Silent Party, to any one or more of the following:
if the breach related to goods: the replacement of the goods or the supply of equivalent goods; the repair of such goods; the payment of the cost of replacing the goods or of acquiring equivalent goods; or the payment of the cost of having the goods repaired; and
if the breach relates to services, the cost of supplying of the services again; or the payment of the cost of having the services supplied again.
Subject only to clause 6.2, Silent Party shall not be under any liability to Customer in respect of any loss or damage (including, without limitation, consequential loss or damage) however caused, which may be suffered or incurred or which may arise directly or indirectly in respect to the supply of goods or services pursuant to these Terms and Conditions or the failure or omission on the part of Silent Party to comply with its obligations under these Terms and Conditions including, without limitation, negligence.
Silent Party retains all rights, including without limitation any intellectual property rights, and title in the Equipment.
The use of any software supplied to the Customer by Silent Party is subject to the relevant End User Licence Agreement which shall be incorporated into these Terms and Conditions.
Silent Party will not be liable for any delay or failure to perform its obligations if such a failure or delay is due to Force Majeure.
No right of Silent Party shall be deemed to be waived except by notice in writing from Silent Party.
A failure by Silent Party  to enforce any clause of these Terms and Conditions, or any forbearance, delay or indulgence granted by a Party will not be construed as a waiver of Silent Party's rights.
Notices under these Terms and Conditions may be delivered by hand, by mail, facsimile or e-mail to:
in the case of Silent Party, the Delivery Address; and
in the case of the Customer, at  the Customer's address set out in the Hire Schedule.
Notices shall be deemed given:
in the case of hand delivery, upon written acknowledgment of receipt by an officer or other duly authorised employee, agent or representative of the receiving Party;
in the case of mail, three days after dispatch;
in the case of facsimile, upon completion of transmission; and
in the case of e-mail, immediately after dispatch.
Except to the extent stated to the contrary in the Hire Schedule, Hire Fees are exclusive of taxes, duties, fees or other government levies or charges which may be imposed on or in respect of the Equipment.
Such taxes, duties, fees or other government charges shall to the extent permissible by law be paid by the Customer to Silent Party.
If any payment owing to Silent Party by the Customer is not made within seven (7) days of the due date, Silent Party may, without further notice to the Customer, suspend further services or its remaining obligations to the Customer under these Terms and Conditions.
Without limiting the generality of any other clause in these Terms and Conditions, Silent Party may terminate its agreement with the Customer immediately by notice in writing if:
any payment due from the Customer to Silent Party pursuant to these Terms and Conditions remains unpaid for a period of seven (7) days;
the Customer breaches any provision of these Terms and Conditions and such breach is not remedied immediately upon receipt of notice by Silent Party;
The Customer is otherwise no longer capable of complying with its obligations under these Terms and Conditions; or
The Customer:
becomes, threatens or resolves to become or is in jeopardy of becoming subject to any form of insolvency,  administration;
being a partnership, dissolves, threatens or resolves to dissolve or is in jeopardy of dissolving;
being a natural person, dies; or
the Customer otherwise ceases or threatens to cease conducting its business in the usual manner.
If the agreement between Silent Party and the Customer is terminated pursuant to these Terms and Conditions, then Silent Party  may, in its sole discretion:
retain all moneys paid, which is agreed to be a genuine estimate of part of Silent Party's loss and damage suffered;
charge a reasonable sum for the Equipment supplied in respect of which no sum has been previously charged;
be regarded as discharged from any further obligations under these Terms and Conditions; and
enter upon the premises of Customer, the consent to which is hereby irrevocably granted to repossess the Equipment, and all such reasonable costs of repossession shall be paid by the  Customer;
pursue any additional or alternative remedies provided by law.
The covenants, conditions and provisions of these Terms and Conditions which are capable of having effect after the expiration of these Terms and Conditions shall remain in full force and effect following the termination of the Terms and Conditions.
These Terms and Conditions constitute the entire agreement between the parties for the subject matter referred to in these Terms and Conditions.
Any prior arrangements, including without limitation, verbal arrangements, agreements, representations or undertakings are superseded.
No modification, variation or alteration of any provision of these Terms and Conditions shall be valid except in writing signed by each Party.
These Terms and Conditions will be governed by and construed according to the law of the State of Queensland.
The parties irrevocably submit to the exclusive jurisdiction of the courts of Queensland and Australia and any courts hearing appeals from such courts.

Notwithstanding any other provision in this Deed, this Deed will not have effect until the New Commonwealth Agreement has been executed by all parties to that Agreement.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Deed, clauses of this Deed do not affect the rights and obligations of the parties arising or accruing under the Original Commonwealth Agreement prior to the date on which this Deed takes effect under clause 2.1.
Notwithstanding that this Deed terminates the Original Commonwealth Agreement, the Researcher is not required to comply with clauses 15A.1 and 15A.2 of the Original Commonwealth Agreement.
On the termination of the Original Commonwealth Agreement the Researcher must do all things reasonably required by the Commonwealth to ensure orderly transition to the New from Existing CRC.
Within 4 months of the termination of the Original Commonwealth Agreement the Researcher must prepare and provide reports in accordance with clause 14, 14A and 14B of the Original Commonwealth Agreement as if the Agreement was terminated under clause 15 of that Agreement.
For a period of up to 3 months after the termination of the Original Commonwealth Agreement the Researcher may draw from the Account amounts necessary to meet commitments properly made prior to the termination of the Original Commonwealth Agreement.
Subject to clauses 4.4 and 4.5, within 3 months of the termination of the Original Commonwealth Agreement the Researcher must pay to the company established to govern the New From Existing CRC (the Company) the Unexpended Grant Amount.
The Unexpended Grant Amount referred to in clause 4.2 is calculated by multiplying the amount of the monies remaining in the Account by the proportion that the Grant monies paid by the Commonwealth during the Grant Period bears to the total of the deposits paid into the Account during the Grant Period.
The Commonwealth may, at its absolute discretion, give written directions to the Researcher regarding its dealings with the Unexpended Grant Amount, including a direction that the Unexpended Grant Amount be paid to the Commonwealth instead of the Company.
The Researcher must comply with any such written directions from the Commonwealth.
In the event that the Unexpended Grant Amount exceeds $250,000 the Researcher must inform the Commonwealth in writing of the amount of the Unexpended Grant Amount prior to paying any of that amount to the Company and must seek written directions from the Commonwealth in regard to its treatment of the Unexpended Grant Amount.
A commitment referred to in clause 4.1 will not have been properly made if:
it was made in breach of clause 5 of the Original Commonwealth Agreement; or
the resultant expenditure is likely to occur more than 3 months after the termination of the Original Commonwealth Agreement.
Notwithstanding clauses 4.1 to 4.5, upon the written request of the Researcher the Commonwealth may, at its absolute discretion, permit the monies that would otherwise be required to be paid to the Company or the Commonwealth in accordance with clause 4.2 to be retained by the Researcher to be used in accordance with a purpose agreed by the Commonwealth and permitted under the terms of the Original Commonwealth Agreement.
If the Commonwealth agrees to a request by the Researcher under clause 4.7 and monies so retained by the Researcher under clause 4.7 are not fully used for the purpose agreed to by the Commonwealth within any timeframe for such use specified by the Commonwealth, or are used for a purpose not permitted by the Commonwealth, the Researcher must pay immediately to the Commonwealth the portion of those monies that are not used in accordance with the agreed purpose, such amount being a debt due to the Commonwealth without further proof of the debt by the Commonwealth.
The indemnity provided by the Researcher under clause 19 of the Original Commonwealth Agreement will survive the termination of the Original Commonwealth Agreement.
This Deed may be signed by the Researcher in several counterparts.
When signed by the Commonwealth, each signed counterpart is taken to be an original of this Deed

The sponsee agrees to grant the sponsor the following sponsorship rights: (List all benefits to sponsor.)
It is agreed that at the time of renegotiation, the sponsee will automatically invite the sponsor to renegotiate the agreement.
The sponsorship will be for the period of xxxxxx to xxxxxxx.
The sponsor agrees to provide: (List all the provisions of the sponsor.)
The sponsee agrees to provide the sponsor in the form of xxxxxx.
In the event of a dispute arising that the parties themselves cannot resolve, the parties agree to refer the matter to an independent arbitrator appointed by mutual agreement.
If the parties cannot agree on an arbitrator, or both parties do not agree with the decision of the arbitrator appointed, the agreement may be terminated in the following manner:

If the breach is one that can be rectified, then the non-breaching party can request in writing that the breach be rectified in 14 days.
If the breach is not rectified within that time, the non-breaching party may terminate the Agreement immediately;
If the breach is one that cannot be rectified, the non-breaching party may terminate the Agreement by giving 14 days written notice of their intention to terminate.
If either party goes into liquidation, is wound up, dissolved (except for the purpose of reconstruction or amalgamation), enters into a scheme of arrangement or is placed under official management or in receivership, the other party may terminate the Agreement by giving 14 days written notice of their intention to terminate under the clause.
In the event of a termination under this Agreement, each party's rights and liabilities will cease immediately but the termination shall not affect a party's rights arising out of a breach of this agreement by the other party.
Where one party is unable to carry out its obligations under this agreement due to circumstances beyond its control or which it could not have prevented, those obligations are suspended whilst those circumstances continue, provided the other party is notified and the first party uses its best endeavours to overcome the circumstances preventing its obligations from being carried out.
Each party shall indemnify the other against any claims arising from any breach of the agreement by either party.
The terms and conditions of this agreement shall not be disclosed to any third parties without the prior written consent of both parties.
The rights of either party under this agreement shall not be transferable or assignable either in whole or in part.
PATDC Group Training shall be and remain at all times the employer of any Apprentices and/or Trainees placed with the Host Employer;
PATDC Group Training will pay the wages and entitlements of any Apprentices and/or Trainees placed with the Host Employer in accordance with law including superannuation, worker's compensation and other employment on-costs referable to PATDC Group Training;
PATDC Group Training provides no work directly to any Apprentices and/or Trainees but indirectly provides work to any Apprentices and/or Trainees that it places with the Host Employer.
PATDC Group Training will make Apprentices and/or Trainees available to the Host Employer on request, subject to availability and the Host Employer having executed this Agreement.
The Host Employer will execute a Host Placement Form in the form attached as the Schedule of this Agreement for each Apprentice or Trainee it hosts.
The Host Employer agrees to host Apprentices and/or Trainees for the minimum period outlined in item 5 of the Schedule.
PATDC Group Training will Invoice the Host Employer for the Host Fee and Allowances for each Apprentice or Trainee it hosts as outlined in item 4 of the Schedule.
The Invoice will set out the Host Fee and the Allowances in respect of services provided by each Apprentice and/or Trainee over the period of the Invoice;
PATDC Group Training may vary the Lease Fee and Allowances payable by the Host Employer for each Apprentice or Trainee it hosts without notice, and retrospectively if necessary, to cover cost increases imposed on PATDC Group Training as a result of award variations, and in all other cases on seven days notice in writing;
If an Apprentice or Trainee completes their duties prior to the completion of a full day, PATDC Group Training is entitled to invoice the Host Employer for a full day;
If the Host Employer is in default of making a payment under clause 5.1 PATDC Group Training may charge interest at the rate of 2.5% until the overdue amount is paid.
Should PATDC Group Training deem it necessary to refer an outstanding debt for recovery action, the Host Employer will be liable for all additional costs until the outstanding amount is paid in full.
The service provided by PATDC Group Training attracts GST.
The Host Employer agrees to pay the GST to PATDC Group Training for the supply of any Apprentices and/or Trainees placed with the Host Employer.
The Invoice referred to in clause 2.4 will be a Tax Invoice showing the amount of GST to be paid by the Host Employer.
Host Employer Obligations to PATDC Group Training
The Host Employer:
must pay PATDC Group Training within the time period outlined in item 6 of the Schedule.
must check and countersign time sheets submitted by any Apprentices and/or Trainees that it hosts, and ensure submission to PATDC by the payroll cut-off time - 10:00am the Wednesday after the payroll fortnight end date;
acknowledges liability for invoices prepared on the basis of time sheets submitted to PATDC Group Training by any Apprentices and/or Trainees that it hosts;
must not on lease any of the Apprentices and/or Trainees to a third party; 
must assist PATDC Group Training in preparing performance reports on any of the Apprentices and/or Trainees that it hosts;
must allow representatives of PATDC Group Training to interview any Apprentices and/or Trainees that it hosts at the premises of the Host Employer or any other place elected by PATDC Group Training from time to time;
must cooperate with representatives of the relevant Commonwealth and State Government Agencies responsible for administering Apprenticeships and Traineeships;
must comply with all State and Federal Vocational Education, Employment & Training (VEET), equal opportunity, affirmative action and anti-discrimination legislation; 
must report immediately to PATDC Group Training any injury suffered by any Apprentices and/ or Trainees that it hosts or any incident at the workplace which exposed an Apprentice or Trainee in the immediate vicinity of the incident to an immediate risk to the Apprentice or Trainee's health and safety; and
must notify PATDC Group Training if any Enterprise Bargaining Agreement or other site agreements exist.
The Host Employer:
must provide supervision to any Apprentices and/or Trainees that it hosts either by constant or general instruction in accordance with guidelines provided to them by PATDC Group Training to allow those Apprentices and/or Trainees to be trained in a safe and harassment free environment;
must provide such workplace training and instruction as would reasonably be required for the purpose of assisting any Apprentices and/or Trainees it hosts to gain the relevant trade qualification;
must release any Apprentices and/or Trainees it hosts to attend training sessions as required;
must ensure any Apprentices and/or Trainees it hosts complete time sheets setting out productive and non-productive hours of work;  
must not provide any Apprentices and/or Trainees it hosts with work which is unsuitable or unsafe;
must ensure job specific personal protective equipment and clothing are satisfactorily used or worn when required by any Apprentices and/or Trainees it hosts; and
must provide any Apprentices and/or Trainees that it hosts with alternative work in the event of conditions that prevent a job from being completed.
must nominate a person to resolve issues, provide advice and handle complaints as required by any Apprentices and/or Trainees it hosts
The Host Employer must comply with the provisions of the Occupational Health, Safety & Welfare Act 1986 including but not limited to:
maintaining a working environment that is safe and without risk to the health of any Apprentices and/or Trainees it hosts;
maintaining a work environment that is free of any acts of harassment (including sexual harassment and bullying);
assisting PATDC Group Training in undertaking a workplace hazard inspection before it hosts any Apprentices and/or Trainees; 
monitoring the health of any Apprentices and/or Trainees that it hosts;
keeping information and records relating to the health and safety of any Apprentices and/or Trainees that it hosts;
nominating a person with, or persons each with an appropriate level of seniority to be the Host Employer's Occupational Health & Safety representative or representatives;
monitoring conditions at the workplace;
providing information and supervision to any Apprentices and/or Trainees it hosts in such languages as is appropriate, with respect to health and safety in the workplace, including the names of persons to whom such Apprentices and/or Trainees may make an injury report or complaint in relation to health and safety;
generally making sure that measures are in place to ensure that the workplace and the means of access to and egress from the workplace are safe and without risk to the health or safety of any Apprentices and/or Trainees that it hosts; 
ensure any Apprentices and/or Trainees participate in site inductions, where applicable, and report the participation of any such Apprentices and/or Trainees in the induction to PATDC Group Training; and
ensure any injured Apprentices and/or Trainees it hosts complete a report of injury or incident as supplied and forward the report to PATDC Group Training.
The Host Employer must comply with the provisions of the Workers Rehabilitation and Compensation  Act 1986.
In the event any Apprentices and/or Trainees placed with the Host Employer sustain a workplace injury whilst such Apprentices and/or Trainees are employed by PATDC Group Training, all Workcover requirements, administration and claims are carried out by PATDC Group Training;
If medical attention is required by any injured Apprentice or Trainee placed with the Host Employer, such Apprentice or Trainee or Host Employer is to inform the medical clinic that PATDC Group Training is their employer.
PATDC Group Training is to be stated as "the employer" on any Compensation Claim completed by an injured Apprentice or Trainee placed with the Host Employer;
The contents of this Agreement and clause 10 in particular shall not be taken to have indemnified the Host Employer from any liability that may arise pursuant to the relevant State or Territory Workers' Compensation Laws.
The Host Employer will maintain public liability insurance to the amount outlined in item 7 of the Schedule against any loss, damage or injury to any third party caused by any Apprentices and/or Trainees that it hosts, and which arises out of or in the course of its hosting of the Apprentices and/or Trainees.
The Host Employer must produce on demand to PATDC Group Training evidence of insurance to be effected under this Agreement and any amendments thereto together with all renewal certificates and must pay all premiums before they became due for payment.
PATDC Group Training is not liable for any loss or damage to property or person caused from or arising out of any act (including theft) or omission of any Apprentices and/or Trainees placed with the Host Employer, whether negligent or otherwise.
The Host Employer accepts that PATDC Group Training makes no warranty or representation as to the experience, skill or capacity of new Apprentices and/or Trainees placed with the Host Employer.
The Host Employer shall indemnify PATDC Group Training against any liability, loss, claim, or proceeding in respect of any injury, loss or damage whatsoever to any property, real or personal, insofar as such injury, loss or damage arises out of or in the course of it hosting any Apprentices and/or Trainees or by reason or any act (including theft) or omission of any Apprentices and/or Trainees it hosts during the period it hosts such Apprentices and/or Trainees whether such act or omission was negligent or otherwise.
The Host Employer's liability to indemnify PATDC Group Training shall be reduced proportionally to the extent that any act or omission of PATDC Group Training, its servants or agents, contributed to the loss or liability.
PATDC Group Training or the Host Employer may terminate the Agreement by giving fourteen days' notice in writing.
Such notice may be given during the placement of any Apprentices and/or Trainees unless the hosting has less than fourteen days to run.
PATDC Group Training or the Host Employer may terminate the placement of any Apprentices and/ or Trainees immediately in the event of serious misconduct or in all other circumstances by giving fourteen day's notice in writing.
PATDC Group Training may withdraw any Apprentices and/or Trainees placed with the Host Employer immediately and without payment or penalty if:
either party terminates this Agreement pursuant to clause 11.1, in order to facilitate continuity of employment of the Apprentice and/or Trainee;
the Host Employer fails to pay any amount due to PATDC Group Training; or
the Host Employer breaches any obligation set out in clauses 5,6 or 7.
The Host Employer must not offer direct employment to any Apprentices and/or Trainees that it hosts by way of employment, indenture or training agreement without the prior written approval of  PATDC Group Training.
If the Host Employer, with the prior written approval of PATDC Group Training, offers direct employment to any Apprentices and/or Trainees it hosts by way of employment, indenture or training agreement and such Apprentice or Trainee accepts that offer, the Host Employer must pay to PATDC Group Training the sum equivalent to 10% of the gross annual salary of those Apprentices and/or Trainees.
The Host Employer then becomes the employer of those Apprentices and/or Trainees and becomes responsible for Charges and salaries in respect of those Apprentices and/or Trainees.
Each party shall pay that party's own costs and expenses in respect of the negotiation, preparation, execution and delivery of this Agreement and any documents entered into pursuant to or in respect of this Agreement.
PATDC Group Training is bound by the National Privacy Principles in the Privacy Act 1988.
A copy of our Privacy Policy (POL019) is available on request.
In the conduct of our Group Training service we collect personal information for the purpose of recruiting, placing and monitoring apprentices and trainees with Host Employers and with Registered Training Organisations throughout the term of their employment with PATDC Group Training.
As employee records are exempt in the Privacy Act, PATDC Group Training's Privacy Policy does not apply to its handling of an employee record where the practice relates directly to a current or former employment relationship between PATDC Group Training and the individual.
PATDC Group Training is committed to the provision of quality Group Training services and, while disputes are inevitable, PATDC Group Training management aim to deal with and ultimately resolve any grievance that may arise.
A copy of our Grievance Policy (POL/006) is available on request.
The following framework to resolution is provided/agreed to in the event that a grievance may occur:
In the first instance, refer the issue to the PATDC Group Training Field Officer
If the issue is unresolved, approach the PATDC Group Training Manager
If the issue is still unresolved, approach the CEO or HR Manager
The CEO shall be kept informed of all grievances and may become involved in the resolution process
If the matter remains unresolved, it will be referred to the Traineeship and Apprenticeship Management Branch of the Department of Further Education, Employment, Science and Technology for advice, information or conciliation.
While the foregoing is in progress, the Host Employer Agreement & Group Training services shall continue as normal insofar as is reasonable and safe.
(Reference:  PRO/010 - PATDC Group Training Grievance Procedure)

A notice required or permitted to be given by one party to another under this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be treated as being duly given and received if it is:
delivered personally to that other party;
left at that other party's address;
sent by pre-paid mail to that other party's address; or
transmitted by facsimile to that other party.
A notice given to a party shall be duly given and received:
when delivered (in the case of it being delivered personally or left at that party's address) provided that a notice delivered after 5.00 p.m on any day or on a day which is not a Business Day shall be treated as having been duly given and received at 9.00 am on the next Business Day; 
on the third Business Day after posting (in the case of it being sent by pre-paid mail);  and
on the day of transmission (if given by facsimile and no intimation having been received that the notice has not been received, whether that intimation comes from that party or from the operation of facsimile machinery or otherwise), provided that a notice transmitted after 5.00 p.m on any day or on a day which is not a Business Day shall be treated as having been duly given and received at 9.00 am on the next Business Day.
Each party shall sign, execute, deliver and do and shall procure that each of its officers, employees and agents signs, executes, delivers and does, all deeds, documents, instruments and acts reasonably required of it or them by notice from another party to effectively carry out and give full effect to this Agreement and the rights and obligations of the parties under it.
The rights and obligations of the parties in respect of agreements, indemnities, covenants and warranties contained in this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect, be continuing agreements, indemnities, covenants and warranties and not be merged or extinguished by or upon termination of, or completion of any obligations under, this Agreement.
This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement between the parties with respect to its subject matter and supersedes all previous communications, representations, inducements, undertakings, agreements or arrangements between the parties or their respective officers, employees or agents.
This Agreement shall not be varied except by a document in writing signed by the parties.
The failure, delay, relaxation or indulgence on the part of a party in exercising any power, right or remedy conferred upon that party by this Agreement shall not operate as a waiver of that power, right or remedy, nor shall the exercise or any single or partial exercise of any power, right or remedy preclude any other or further exercise of such power, right or remedy or the exercise of any other power, right or remedy under this Agreement.
Any waiver of a breach of this Agreement shall be in writing signed by the party granting the waiver and shall be effective only to the extent specifically set out in that waiver.
If any provision of this Agreement is invalid or not enforceable in accordance with its terms in any jurisdiction, it is to be read down for the purposes of that jurisdiction, if possible, so as to be valid and enforceable and shall otherwise be capable of being severed to the extent of the invalidity or unenforceability without affecting the remaining provisions of this Agreement or affecting the validity or enforceability of that provision in any other jurisdiction.
A party shall not, at law or in equity, assign, transfer or otherwise deal with any of its rights or obligations under this Agreement without the prior written consent of the other party or parties, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld.
This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts and all of those counterparts taken together shall constitute one and the same document.

The Parties have agreed to appoint the Arbitrator as the sole arbiter to hear and determine the dispute described in Schedule 1 together with any other dispute or matter arising out of or in relation to the matters in dispute which may be consolidated or otherwise come to be heard together between them (the Dispute).
The Arbitrator has agreed to accept this appointment.
By executing (whether as or on behalf of a Party) a counterpart of this Agreement each signatory confirms that Party's agreement to the reference of the Dispute to the Arbitrator as sole arbitrator of the dispute.
If the signatory is a legal representative or other agent of a party the signatory:
warrants to the Arbitrator and to the other Party that the signatory has the actual authority of the signatory's client or principal to execute this Agreement; and
personally becomes liable for the obligations of the Party for whom the signatory signs, and makes the acknowledgements and agreements made herein by that Party, as if the signatory was a party to this Agreement.
The reference is formally entered upon when the Arbitrator executes a counterpart of this Agreement.
The Arbitrator is not bound to undertake the reference until he executes this Agreement.
The Arbitrator will, in consultation with the Parties, select a date and place for the arbitration and a method of conducting the arbitration, subject to the following:
In the case of an international commercial arbitration the provisions of the International Arbitration Act 1974 (Cth) (IAA) apply; and
In the case of a domestic arbitration, the provisions of the Commercial Arbitration Act 1984 (NSW) (CAA) apply;
In the case of an arbitration on documents, the provisions of the Sydney Mediation and Arbitration Rules and terms (SMART) apply.
The Arbitrator will charge fees and expenses at the rate set out in Schedule 2, subject to increase from time to time.
The Arbitrator will require the Parties to pay his fees and expenses in advance.
The Parties are jointly and severally liable for payment of the Arbitrator fees and expenses.
The parties will ensure that the Arbitrator is not personally liable for any expenses for the Arbitration.
The Parties will pay the Arbitrator's fees and expenses (including payment in advance) as and when requested by the Arbitrator upon receipt of a tax invoice.
The Arbitrator may decline to take any step in the Arbitration if any fee or expense is unpaid, without affecting the Arbitrator's rights against the Parties to recover his fees or expenses, including those incurred preparatory to the commencement of this Arbitration.
In particular, any outstanding fees and expenses must be paid before the Arbitrator will release his Award.
If any of the Arbitrator's fees or expenses are unpaid after 30 days of the date of the Arbitrator's tax invoice, interest is payable at the rate set out in schedule 5 of the NSW Uniform Civil Procedure Rules.
The Arbitrator is not required to provide a tax invoice setting out an itemised narrative for the amount of his fees or expenses.
The Arbitrator provides an estimate of his fees and expenses for the arbitration in Schedule 2 (the Estimated Fees and Expenses).
All amounts claimed by the Arbitrator in a tax invoice are monies payable as a debt due to the Arbitrator.
All work by the Arbitrator to date of this Agreement in respect of the arbitration will be charged and paid for in accordance within the terms of this Agreement.
Subject to compliance with applicable compulsory requirements of law:
The Arbitrator is hereby expressly authorised by the Parties to draw on any monies held for the Arbitrator by the Institute of Arbitrators and Mediators Australia, the Australian Commercial Disputes Centre Ltd or any other entity appointed to hold monies for the Arbitrator;
The Arbitrator's receipt will be a sufficient discharge for the paying entity in respect of any payment to or at the direction of the Arbitrator to which the receipt relates;
If monies are held for the Arbitrator in a trust, controlled money or other account of a Party's solicitor, each Party hereby irrevocably authorises and directs the payment of monies from such account immediately on receipt by the solicitor of a tax invoice.
This clause does not affect the rights of the Parties as between each other in respect of an award of costs by the Arbitrator.
To the extent (if any) that professional services provided by the Arbitrator in respect of the arbitration require disclosure (other than in a bill of costs) and permit the entry into a costs agreement under the Legal Profession Act 2004
	(NSW) or its statutory successors, this Agreement is such a costs agreement and is intended to contain the required terms of disclosure, including a Party's right (if any) to receive a bill of costs and for a review of costs under the Act.
The Arbitrator has the same protection and immunity conferred on an Arbitrator under the Federal Court of Australia Act 1976 (Cth) (FCAA), s53C as if the matter had been referred under s53A of the FCAA.
The liability of the Arbitrator is limited by a scheme approved under the Professional Standards Legislation (NSW).
Where the CAA applies to this Arbitration, in particular and without limiting the Arbitrator's rights, powers, privileges and immunities, sections 14, 19(3), 23, 24, 28, 29(1), 31, 32(1), 34(1), 46(1), 50 and 52(1) of the Act apply without being subject to a contrary intention or agreement or inconsistent provision in the arbitration agreement within the meaning of the CAA.
Section 22(1) of the CAA applies and not section 22(2).
The Parties agree that, if they authorise the Arbitrator to act as described in section 27(1)(b) of the CAA, the Arbitrator may decline so to act without being subject to a claim of misconduct for so declining and without prejudice to his being and continuing as Arbitrator by reason of so declining.
The Arbitrator is entitled to be paid his fees and expenses under this Agreement even if the Arbitration fails for any reason, including but not limited to failure for challenge to jurisdiction, failure within the meaning of section 36 of the CAA and failure due to removal of the Arbitrator for any reason other than proven fraud by the Arbitrator.
The parties agree that there is no exclusion agreement within the meaning of sections 40 and 41 of the Act in respect of the arbitration.
The Parties:
wish all work and information (including but not limited to documents) connected with the Arbitration, including the Award, other than purely administrative work or purely administrative information, is to be kept confidential;
will ensure that:
they and all their representatives or agents, and all persons present during any hearing in the arbitration or doing work or generating or receiving information (including but not limited to documents) in respect of the Arbitration except for persons engaged in purely administrative work or generating or in receipt of purely administrative information, will as soon as reasonably practicable after the date of this Agreement or the date on which the particular person begins to do work or generate or receive information in respect of the Arbitration (whichever date is earlier) execute an undertaking substantially in the form of in Schedule 3 to keep all information confidential;
they or their agent delivers each such executed undertaking to the Arbitrator within 7 days after execution of the relevant undertaking or on the first day of the final hearing of the arbitration, whichever first occurs;
they will include in all agreements in respect of the performance of work or the generation or receipt of information in respect of the Arbitration a confidentiality provision which is the same in substance as the provisions of this clause.
wish the Arbitrator's award to be final and binding, except for an error of law.
This Agreement is governed by the law of New South Wales and the Arbitrator and any proceedings arising out of or in relation to this Agreement are to be brought before a Court in Sydney.
Costs and government charges
Each Party is responsible for that Party's own costs of preparing and executing this Agreement, unless a contrary award is made and subject to any agreement between the Parties as to who bears the costs of the Arbitration as between each other.
In the absence of an agreement between the Parties concerning the payment of costs of the Arbitration, the costs will follow the award.
The Parties are responsible jointly and separately to other persons for the payment of all costs, duties and charges (including but not limited to stamp duty and registration fees in any jurisdiction) which are necessary for the purposes of making this agreement legally binding and enforceable.
Any costs, duties and charges payable by the Arbitrator arising out of or in relation to this Arbitration may be claimed by him from the Parties.
This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts.
Notwithstanding anything contained herein, the Parties promise not to sue the Arbitrator and hereby jointly and severally indemnify and hold the Arbitrator harmless for all claims, costs and expenses by them or another arising out of or in relation to the Arbitration, including the Fees and Expenses of the Arbitrator, and in relation to all inquiries or proceedings of whatever description and by whomsoever and wheresoever instituted and arising out of or in relation to any matter in relation to or arising before or in the course of the Arbitration, or the Award, except for any fraud by the Arbitrator.
The Obligor will keep confidential, except in the circumstances described in paragraph 3, all work which the Obligor does and all information (including but not limited to documents) which the obligor generates or receives in respect of the arbitration between:

The Obligor will not disclose, except in the circumstances described in paragraph 3, any details in respect of the work described in paragraph 1 or any of the information described in paragraph 1.
The exceptions to the Obligor's obligations in paragraphs 1 and 2 are as follows:
if reasonably necessary for the performance of the Obligor's work or the generation or receipt of information by the obligor for the purposes of the Arbitration;
after being consented to in writing by the Arbitrator and each of the Parties to the Arbitration;
if compelled by subpoena or otherwise by law, but only if the obligor has given the Arbitrator and each Party to the Arbitration, notice of the compulsion in time for any of them to object to the appropriate court or authority in respect of the proposed breaking of confidentiality or disclosure (unless there is not time reasonably to give such notice before the Obligor has to comply with the compulsion and the Obligor has done all which is reasonably practicable before the time which the Obligor has to comply with the compulsion to seek an extension of time for the purpose of being able to give such notice), or in the absence of a grant of an extension, to seek an order to have the documents or things to be produced or revealed, sealed until the Arbitrator or Parties have an opportunity to appear and be heard by the court or authority.
The CDU/NTG Partnership Agreement seeks to maximise opportunities from the use of human, financial and infrastructure resources to meet joint priorities.
One such priority is (insert project name).
As part of this project, a person is required to carry out the duties and functions of (insert position) with the host employer.
The CDU has agreed to release the Employee to perform duties in the service of NTG (the "Secondment").
The parties agree that the Secondment will operate on the terms and conditions set out in this Agreement.
The term of the Secondment will be (insert period eg: 12 months), commencing on (insert date) and terminating on (insert date) (the "Term"), unless terminated earlier by:
written agreement between the parties in accordance with clause 12; or
written notice following a breach of this Agreement in accordance with clause 7.
During the Term the Employee will be employed by the Host Employer and the Host Employer's terms and conditions of employment will govern the Employee's employment, including, without limitation: 
hours of work;
salary and method of payment;
performance incentive schemes;
annual leave, sick leave and other entitlements;
superannuation entitlements; and
use of company vehicles, accommodation and mobile telephones.
The Employee will perform the duties of (insert position) in accordance with the job description and duty statement provided by the Host Employer and set out in the Schedule (the "Duties").
Any changes to the Duties to be performed by the Employee, or the location at which they are performed, must be approved by both parties in writing prior to such changes taking effect.
During the term, the Employee is released from employment with CDU and:
all entitlements to which the Employee would otherwise have been entitled to under relevant CDU awards and certified agreements (the "CDU conditions") will cease to accrue;
service with the Host Employer will not count as service with CDU for any purpose; and
may not access any entitlements that have accrued under the CDU conditions.
On the termination of the Secondment, all annual leave entitlements accrued during the Term will be paid out to the Employee.
If a dispute arises between the Substantive Employer and the Host Employer as to any matter or thing arising out of this Agreement, an attempt will be made to resolve the dispute by negotiation.
If the Substantive Employer and the Host Employer are unable to resolve the dispute by negotiation within (insert) days of the dispute arising, or such longer period as agreed, the matter will be referred to the Chief Executive Officers of those parties for dispute resolution.
If the Chief Executive Officers are unable to resolve the matter within (insert) days, or such longer period as agreed, they will agree upon a process for resolving the dispute through an external dispute resolution process such as conciliation, mediation, independent expert determination, or a combination thereof.
If the Chief Executive Officers are unable to agree on an appropriate external dispute resolution process, either party may refer the matter to the President of the Law Society of the Northern Territory who will determine an appropriate external dispute resolution process and an appropriate provider of such process.
If the President of the Law Society of the Northern Territory determines that the dispute will be resolved by an independent expert, the independent expert's decision will be absolute and final and will bind the parties accordingly and this Agreement will be deemed to be amended to incorporate the terms of the independent expert's decision.
In making any decision the independent expert will be deemed to be acting as an expert and not an arbitrator.
The Substantive Employer and the Host Employer will bear the costs of the external dispute resolution process equally.
If the Substantive Employer or the Host Employer breaches any obligations under this Agreement, and fails to remedy the breach within 7 days of receiving written notice from the other party requesting it to do so, the other party may terminate the Agreement immediately by written notice.
All notices, approvals, consents, demands or other communications required or permitted to be given under this Agreement must be in writing and served:
personally;
by pre-paid certified post; or
by facsimile transmission,
the address of the party set out below or at such other address as a party may have substituted for it by written notice to the other.
A notice, approval consent, demand or other communication is deemed to be given by the sender and received by the addressee, if:
given by delivery in person, when delivered to the addressee;
sent by mail, on the third business day from and including the date of posting; or
sent by facsimile, on receipt of a complete and correct transmission report by the sender and if received by the addressee before 4.00pm (addressee's time) on a business day, on that day, otherwise it is deemed to be received at 9.00am on the following business day in the place of receipt.
A party may change its address or numbers for service by notice in writing to the other party.
A party must not, without the prior written consent of the other parties, disclose any of the substantive terms or conditions of this Agreement to any third party.
The parties must comply with all laws in force in the Northern Territory from time to time.
This Agreement may only be varied in writing signed by each of the parties.
A party must not assign or otherwise deal with this Agreement or any right under this Agreement without the prior written consent of the other parties.
If a court determines that a word, phrase, sentence, paragraph or provision in this arrangement is unenforceable, illegal or void then it will be severed and the other provisions of this arrangement will remain operative.
This Agreement is governed by and construed in accordance with the law for the time being in force in the Northern Territory and the parties hereto submit to the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court of the Northern Territory at Darwin in respect of all matters arising hereunder or related hereto.

The land owner will undertake the work identified in the manner described in the proposal and in particular so as to meet the specific conditions imposed on the proposal herein and within the time period specified in clause 3.2.
The land owner will undertake all reasonable measures or steps to cause the work undertaken in accordance with the proposal to be maintained in a good and proper condition for the minimum period specified in the "Letter of Offer" and to that end shall ensure:
that any fencing undertaken to protect any areas remains stock proof
that any vegetation planted is managed in such a way so as to maximise its health and longevity.
The Catchment Group will make available the funding identified in the proposal in the following manner:
Table 1, on the letter attached here to titled AGREED PROJECTS AND INCENTIVE PAYMENTS constitutes the offer being made by the Catchment Group in this agreement.
The offer is also subject to any special terms and conditions outlined in the attached Letter of Offer.
Payment will not be required of the Catchment Group if the work identified in the proposal has not been undertaken in accordance with the same or if a condition imposed or regarding the work has not been met.
No payments will be made until a satisfactory inspection of the completed projects has been conducted.
Work should be completed as soon as possible after the acceptance of this agreement.
Completed projects must be made available for inspection as soon as possible and no later than June 30 2010.
To be eligible for payment, works are to conform with the Individual Project Proposal application form and conform with the minimum standards outlined in the Project Incentives Payments Schedule.
The Catchment Group and any of its Projects are subject to audits by the State and Commonwealth Government.
The landowner must maintain a record of all expenditure in relation to the project for 7 years for tax purposes and provide project details upon request.
The Catchment Group will declare project details to the relevant funding and State Authorities involved in administering funding programs as required for project reporting procedures.
The Catchment Group's project publicity will only provide amalgamated data about the project and individual details will only be used by the Catchment Group for publicity purposes with the express permission of the landholder involved.
The Catchment Group may vary or withdraw an undertaking or agreement to provide funding of a project or any part of a proposal at any time up until the time the land owner commences either the project or any part of same.
The land owner shall undertake the project or any part of same for which funding has been agreed within the time period specified in the proposal, and in the event that a land owner does not complete the work specified within such time period, the Catchment Group  may withdraw or reduce the level of funding previously agreed to providing however that the Catchment Group  will not unreasonably or capriciously withdraw funding or do so in circumstances that the landowner has not had a proper opportunity to complete the work.
The Catchment Group, its employees, contractors and invitees shall at all reasonable times and after the provision of reasonable notice, have access to the land to inspect the projects for the purpose of demonstration, monitoring or evaluation of the project.
If the land owner gives up possession of the land for any reason, or cause any agreement with any third party whom will or may be entitled to possession to be subject in all respects to the rights of the Catchment Group pursuant to this agreement.
The land owner will cause any agreement of sale of the land to respect the rights of the Catchment Group pursuant to the terms of this agreement.
The landowner acknowledges that all risks associated with the project rest with the land owner and not the Catchment Group.
The landholder must have a current public liability insurance for at least $5,000,000.
(5 million dollars)

In the event that any dispute between the parties arises out of or relates to this agreement, no party may commence any Court or Arbitration proceedings relating to the dispute unless he or she has complied with the following sub-clauses except where such party seeks urgent interlocutory relief only
A party claiming that a dispute ("the Dispute") has risen under or in relation to this agreement, must give written notice to the other parties specifying the nature of the Dispute.
On receipt of that notice by the other parties, the parties must endeavour in good faith to resolve the Dispute expeditiously using informal dispute resolution techniques such as mediation expert evaluation or determination or similar techniques agreed by them.
If the parties do not agree within seven (7) days of the receipt of the notice referred to in this clause (or such further period as is agreed in writing by them) as to:
the dispute resolution techniques and procedures to be adopted,
the timetable for all steps in those procedures, and
the selection and compensation of the independent person required for such technique,
the parties shall mediate the Dispute in accordance with the Guidelines for Legal Practitioners Acting as Mediators published by the Law Society of South Australia and the President, for the time being, of the Law Society of South Australia or the President's nominee, will at the request of any party, select the Mediator ("the Mediator") and determine the Mediator remuneration.
The mediator shall then give such direction as may be required for the purposes of bringing the parties together for mediation and no party shall be at the liberty to commence Court or Arbitration proceedings until such time as the Mediator has certified that as in his opinion there is no reasonable likelihood of the mediation being successful.
The costs of the Mediator will be borne equally by both parties.
No variation or waiver of, or any consent to any departure by a party from, a provision of this Agreement is of any force or effect unless it is confirmed in writing signed by the parties and then that variation, waiver or consent is effective only to the extent for which it is made or given.
The failure, delay, relaxation or indulgence on the part of the Catchment Group in exercising any power or right conferred upon the Catchment Group by this Agreement does not operate as a waiver of that power or right, nor does any single exercise of it or the exercise of any other power or right under this agreement.
This agreement constitutes the sole and entire Agreement between the parties and a warranty, representation, guarantee or other term or condition of any nature not contained or recorded in this Agreement is of no force or effect.
This Agreement is governed by, and is to be construed accordance with, the law of South Australia and the parties submit to the exclusive jurisdiction of the courts of South Australia and any court hearing appeals from those courts.
Subject to clause 3.2, the Recipient may disclose Confidential Information to the Recipient's Personnel on a need to know basis, solely to assist the Recipient in complying with or carrying out the Approved Purposes and on the condition that the Recipient's Personnel do not disclose the Confidential Information to any other person.
The Recipient must ensure that:
the Recipient's Personnel who have access to the Confidential Information are made fully aware of the confidential nature of all Confidential Information; and
if required by RMIT, each of the Recipient's Personnel must sign the Confidentiality Undertaking contained at the end of this deed.
The Recipient must ensure that none of the Recipient's Personnel do or omit anything which, if done or omitted to be done by the Recipient, would constitute a breach of its obligations under this deed.
Upon the earlier to occur of:
a notice by RMIT; and
the time when the Confidential Information is no longer required by the Recipient for the Approved Purposes,
the Recipient must deliver to RMIT (or with RMIT's prior written consent, destroy or erase) all material forms of Confidential Information in the possession, power or control of the Recipient or any of the Recipient's Personnel whether or not those material forms were created by RMIT, but such delivery does not release the Recipient from its obligations under this deed.
The Recipient acknowledges and agrees that:
neither RMIT nor any employee or other representative of RMIT has made or makes any representation or warranty, express or implied, as to the accuracy or completeness of its Confidential Information; and
it must make its own assessment of all Confidential Information disclosed to it and satisfy itself as to the accuracy and completeness of the Confidential Information.
To the extent permitted by law, the Recipient releases RMIT from all liability for any loss or damage (whether foreseeable or not) suffered by any person acting on any Confidential Information whether the loss or damage arises in connection with any negligence, default, lack of care, misrepresentation or any other cause.
The Recipient must immediately notify RMIT of all information which comes to its attention regarding any actual or potential disclosure or use of Confidential Information other than in accordance with this deed.
The Recipient acknowledges that damages may not be an adequate remedy for RMIT for any breach of this deed by the Recipient and that RMIT is entitled to seek specific performance or injunctive relief as a remedy for any such breach or threatened breach, in addition to any other remedies available at law or in equity under this deed or independently of this deed.
A provision of or a right created by this deed cannot be waived except in writing signed by the party granting the waiver.
No variation to or amendment of this deed can be made without the consent in writing of all of the parties.
Where any provision of this deed provides for a party to provide its consent or approval then such party may conditionally or unconditionally in its absolute discretion give or withhold such consent or approval unless this deed expressly provides otherwise.
This deed is governed by and construed in all respects in accordance with the laws of the State of Victoria, Australia and the parties hereby submit to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of the courts of the said State of Victoria and any courts empowered to hear appeals therefrom in respect of any proceedings in connection with this deed.
The parties agree to bear their own costs (including legal costs) in respect of this deed.
This deed can be executed in a number of counterparts and the counterparts taken together will be deemed to constitute the one and the same document.
Any notice, demand, consent, approval or other communication ("a Communication") in connection with this deed by a party may (without limitation to any other valid form of execution) be signed by an Authorised Officer of that party (if a corporation), or by any solicitor acting for that party, whose signature may be handwritten or printed or otherwise reproduced by mechanical means.
In addition to any method of service provided for by statute, a Communication in connection with this deed to be sent to or made upon a party is taken to have been given to or made on the party to whom it is addressed if:
sent by facsimile to the facsimile number of the address which in the case of each party is as set out in Item 4;
left for the addressee, or sent by mail (and by airmail if to an address outside Australia) to the addressee at:
any address of that person set out in this deed; or
the registered office of any corporate addressee.
Service under clause 9.2 will be valid even though the addressee may have been wound up or in liquidation (if a corporation) or the addressee is absent from the place at or to which the Communication is left, delivered or sent, or where the Communication is sent by post or otherwise, it is returned unclaimed.
A Communication in connection with this deed will be deemed to have been received by the person:
if left or delivered personally, on the same day;
if sent by post to an address in Australia, on the second business day after the date of posting;
if sent by post to an address outside Australia, on the fourth business day after the date of posting;
in the case of a facsimile, on receipt of the facsimile in legible form.
Unless the parties otherwise agree in writing a Communication in connection with this deed may not be sent by electronic mail ("email").
The parties agree that any special conditions detailed in Item 5 are incorporated in and form part of this deed.
RMIT will allow the Covenantor access to Confidential Information for [specify purpose for giving the Confidential Information] ("Approved Purposes") in consideration of the Covenantor executing this undertaking.
The Recipient has executed in favour of RMIT a Confidentiality Deed dated the 	day of	20    ("the Confidentiality Deed").
The Covenantor covenants with RMIT that it will:
only use or copy Confidential Information for the Approved Purposes;
not disclose, communicate, or permit the disclosure or communication of the Confidential Information to any third person in any manner without the written consent of RMIT except as permitted by this undertaking or for the Approved Purposes to a person who has executed an undertaking in identical form to this undertaking; and
comply with any reasonable request from RMIT regarding the Confidential Information.
Despite clause 1, the Covenantor is allowed to disclose Confidential Information to the extent required by law but only for that sole purpose after making every reasonable effort to object to such requirement for disclosure, and after giving RMIT 10 days prior written notice of the proposed disclosure or which, subsequent to disclosure to the Covenantor, becomes generally available in the public domain.
If Confidential Information is no longer required by the Covenantor for the Approved Purposes, or after a request from RMIT, the Covenantor must, within 5 working days of either event, deliver (or with RMIT's prior consent, destroy or erase) all forms of Confidential Information in the possession, power or control of the Covenantor (whether or not those forms were created by RMIT) to RMIT.
The Covenantor indemnifies RMIT against all liability or loss arising directly or indirectly from, and any costs (including legal costs) incurred in connection with:
any breach by the Covenantor of this undertaking; or
any act or omission of the Covenantor's employees or officers which if done by the Covenantor would constitute a breach of this undertaking.
This undertaking remains in full force and effect until all of the Confidential Information becomes generally available in the public domain.
or the purpose of this undertaking, "Confidential Information" has the meaning set out in the Confidentiality Deed.
The Covenantor acknowledges having been provided with and read a copy of the Confidentiality Deed.



In the interpretation of this Salary Packaging Agreement, no rule of interpretation applies to the disadvantage of a Party on the basis that it put forward this agreement or any part of it;

This Salary Packaging Agreement shall be read in conjunction with the Employment Contract and to the extent of any inconsistency will be read in preference to the Employment Contract;
Any Enterprise Agreement binding on the University and Staff Member shall take precedence to the extent of any inconsistency with this Salary Packaging Agreement.
This Salary Packaging Agreement shall be governed and construed in accordance with the laws of New South Wales.
In relation to matters covered by a relevant Enterprise Agreement the applicable law is the Workplace Relations Act 1996 (Cth).
the University shall provide the Salary and Benefits set out in the schedule.
The Staff Member's entitlement to receive such Salary and Benefits will begin from the date referred to in the schedule;
the Staff Member's entitlement to the money salary set out in the schedule will be paid by electronic funds transfer each fortnight by the University;
the Staff Member's entitlement to the Salary Package set out in the Schedule shall accrue daily with Benefits being payable in accordance with the arrangements set out in the documents attached to the schedule;
any payments made on behalf of the Staff Member to a third person by the University will not lead to transfer of liability or responsibility from the Staff Member to the University in relation to any arrangement, contract or understanding that is, will be or may have been in place between the Staff Member and such third person;

The superannuable salary for both rate of contribution and superannuation entitlement purposes shall be the amount set out in the Schedule.
The Staff Member shall retain the Salary and Benefits set out in the Schedule during periods of paid leave.
Where included in the Salary Package other remuneration is treated as additional to salary but is not taken into account for superannuation purposes other than for fulfilling the University's obligations under UniSuper's Award Plus Plan.
Where Union deductions are based upon a percent of salary, the superannuable salary rate is the amount to be used for calculations to determine such Union deductions.
The substitution of a new Schedule signed by both the University and the Staff Member setting out the renegotiated Salary and Benefits will be sufficient evidence of any revised arrangements for the purposes of this Salary Packaging Agreement or otherwise.
Any legislative changes that impact upon the cost or efficacy of providing Benefits under this Salary Packaging Agreement may lead to a renegotiation of it.
The Staff Member acknowledges that it is his or her responsibility to seek independent financial advice on the appropriateness the terms of this Salary Package Agreement to his or her specific circumstances before accepting it and any other subsequent offer to renegotiate their Salary and Benefits.
If there is a change to the circumstances of the Staff Member it is the responsibility of the Staff Member to seek further independent legal or financial advice if warranted.
Subject to any variation of the Salary Packaging Agreement the Staff Member remains liable to fulfil their obligations under it.
The Staff Member is bound by this Salary Packaging Agreement include the schedules attached to it, a motor vehicle lease agreement and other Benefits or collateral agreement that the Staff Member signs.
The Staff Member hereby agrees to indemnify and to keep indemnified the University, its Staff Members and agents against any loss, liability or expense arising from or in connection to the University's arrangement for a third person to provide benefit to or for the Staff Member or an associate of the Staff Member under this Salary Packaging Agreement.
The Staff Member acknowledges that:
the University's salary package policies are expressly incorporated into and are deemed to be terms of this Agreement; and 
agrees to comply with and be bound by the University's salary packaging policies as amended or substituted from time to time.
The University will provide a copy of the relevant salary packaging polices at the request of the Staff Member.
During the term of the Salary Packaging Agreement the parties will keep each other informed of matters affecting or which might affect the Benefits set out in the Schedule.
This Salary Packaging Agreement shall commence on the date it was signed by the Staff Member and shall continue until:

it is terminated by the Staff Member.
Once the Staff Member has provided notice in writing, the termination is of immediate effect if a relevant Enterprise Agreement provision applies and otherwise after giving one month's notice in writing; or

it is terminated by the University in the event of an Staff Member breaching any of these terms or if the breach is of such a nature to indicate that the Staff Member no longer wishes to be bound by the Salary Packaging Agreement or if the breach is of an essential term of the Salary Packaging Agreement; or

the Staff Member ceases employment with the University.
On termination of the Salary Packaging Agreement:
the obligation of the University to provide or arrange for the benefits set out in the schedule shall immediately cease without claim by the Staff Member for any compensation whatsoever;
any novation or rental or other relevant agreement shall immediately cease;
a report showing the Benefits provided to the Staff Member shall be produced.
The Staff Member's entitlement to the salary package set out in the Schedule as at the termination date will be reconciled against the salary actually provided to the Staff Member.
Any accrued but unpaid salary will be paid to the Staff Member as salary subject to the deduction of any outstanding amount payable in respect to a Benefit.
Any overpayment resulting from the salary being provided in advance is to be repaid as a debt due to the University.
Such sums shall become due and payable upon demand whether or not they are due to be paid.
Nothing in this Salary Packaging Agreement will operate to restrict or prevent the University from recovering moneys owing to it in accordance with its legal rights in the case where the Staff Member owes money to the University.
Nothing in this Salary Packaging Agreement will operate to restrict or prevent the Staff Member from recovering moneys owed to him or her in accordance with his or her legal rights should any moneys be owed to the Staff Member by the University.
The University will not provide information concerning the affairs of the Staff Member to a third person without the written consent of the Staff Member (unless obliged under law to do so) other than:
to the Australian Taxation Office in the event of an audit;
to authorised University staff requiring access in the performance of their duties;
to authorised personnel of an organisation requiring access in the performance of their duties in providing the administrative service for Benefits;
in relation to any requirement by law.
When such a request is made the University will inform the Staff Member.
In consideration of this Offer being made by the University, the Staff Member shall agree to pay all administrative costs, expenses and charges incidental to the provision of Salary and Benefits as determined from time to time by the University.
Except as provided elsewhere in this Salary Packaging Agreement, its terms will not be changed unless the terms of any collateral agreements that are incidental to the provision of Salary and Benefits are concurrently changed.


This Agreement shall take effect from 12.01am on [insert date] (Start Date).
Subject to this Novation Agreement, the Outgoing Party novates absolutely to the Incoming Party all its rights and obligations under the OR Agreement.
The Authority consents to this novation and agrees to continue to perform its obligations and functions under the OR Agreement, as if the OR Agreement had been with the Incoming Party.
The Incoming Party agrees that, subject to this Novation Agreement, it will be bound by the terms and conditions of the OR Agreement as if it had been a party to the OR Agreement.
The Outgoing Party shall remain liable to the Authority for all liabilities which flow from any act or omission of the Outgoing Party in the performance of its functions under the OR Agreement up to the Start Date (regardless of when that liability actually arises).
The Outgoing Party shall indemnify the Incoming Party from and against any costs, claims or demands made by any person, for or in respect of the failure of the Outgoing Party to observe and perform its obligations under the OR Agreement up to the Start Date.
Each party must bear its own legal costs and disbursements incurred in relation to the preparation and execution of this Novation Agreement.

Part 2, Division 3 of the Rail Safety Act obliges rail transport operators and roads authorities to identify and assess and manage, so far as is reasonably practicable, risks to safety that may arise from railway operations carried out on rail infrastructure wholly or partly because of the existence of any rail or road crossing that is part of a road.
The parties are obliged under section 31 of the Rail Safety Act to maintain a register of Interface Agreements to which they are a party, and any arrangements determined by an appointed person under section 30 of the Rail Safety Act.
The parties enter into this agreement in order to comply with their obligations under the Rail Safety Act in relation to rail or road crossings covered by this agreement.
This agreement commences on [ insert date ] and continues until terminated by a party.
A party may terminate this agreement by giving the other party no less than three months' written notice.
Subject to clause 2.4, if this agreement is terminated in accordance with clause 2.2, the parties agree to negotiate in good faith to enter into a replacement Interface Agreement prior to the expiry date of this agreement.
A replacement Interface Agreement is not required to be entered into if:
a rail or road crossing is permanently closed;
a Crown road is permanently closed; or
a railway line is permanently closed.
This agreement applies to the rail or road crossings described in schedule 1.
Responsibility for the infrastructure assets described in schedule 1 is set out in schedule 1.
The parties may amend schedule 1 at any time by written agreement.
The parties will apply a risk management process consistent with AS 4360 Risk Management to identify, assess and manage, so far as is reasonably practicable, risks to safety in relation to the rail or road crossings the subject of this agreement.
This agreement does not supersede any previous agreement between the parties in relation to rail or road crossing safety risk management, unless the parties record in schedule 2 the details of any previous arrangement that is superseded by this agreement.
Each party will record this agreement in the party's register of Interface Agreements.
This agreement does not affect or derogate from the parties' rights and obligations under the Civil Liability Act 2002 or their functions and powers under any other Act.
The parties will identify and assess risks to safety, so far as is reasonably practicable, that may arise in relation to the rail or road crossings the subject of this agreement:
during the life cycle of rail or road crossing infrastructure; and
arising from change in the use or application of rail or road crossing infrastructure.
The parties will record in schedule 3:
the identified risks to safety; 
risk assessments;
measures to manage safety risks; 
the party responsible for implementation and maintenance of the safety risk management measures; and 
the timetable for implementation of safety risk management measures.
The parties may amend schedule 3 at any time by written agreement.
Subject to clause 4.5, the party responsible for implementation and maintenance of the safety risk management measures will be responsible for their cost of implementation and maintenance.
A party may agree to contribute to the funding of the cost of implementation and/or maintenance by another party of safety risk management measures.
The parties may undertake identification and assessment of safety risks individually or jointly, or may adopt a risk assessment carried out by the other party.
Each party will continuously monitor and review the safety risks and measures to manage the safety risks for which it is responsible, including progress against the timetable for implementation of safety risk management measures.
The parties will consult with each other in relation to the outcome of their monitor and review.
If, following a party's monitor and review under this clause 5, a safety risk is considered to be unacceptable, the parties will work collaboratively and cooperatively to agree measures to manage the safety risk so far as is reasonably practicable and will record any changes in schedule 3.
Each party will report annually to the other party, or at such other times that the parties may agree, on its progress in implementing agreed safety risk management measures for which it is responsible under this agreement.
A party may, at its cost, undertake an independent audit of another party's records of compliance with this agreement, upon giving reasonable written notice to the other party.
The parties agree to cooperate with each other in the conduct of such audits.
The parties will notify each other promptly of any occurrence or incident in connection with safety of the rail or road crossings the subject of this agreement.
Schedule 4 contains details of the parties' representatives for the purposes of this agreement, together with emergency contact details in the event of any occurrence or incident   The parties will promptly notify the other parties of any changes to schedule 4.
The parties will meet annually, or at such other times the parties may agree, to review the provisions of this agreement and the adequacy of safety risk identification, assessment and management concerning the rail or road crossings the subject of this agreement.
Agendas and minutes of such meetings will be kept by the party hosting the meeting.
Minutes will be circulated to other parties within ten business days of the meeting.
The costs of holding meetings under this clause 7 will be shared equally between the parties.
Should a dispute arise between the parties in connection with this agreement, a party may issue a written notice of dispute to the other party.
Within 5 business days of receipt of a notice of dispute senior officers of each party will meet to discuss the dispute.
If the senior officers are unable to resolve the dispute, chief executive officers of the parties will meet within 5 business days to attempt to resolve the dispute.
If the chief executive officers of the parties are unable to resolve the dispute, the dispute will be referred for conciliation to the IAMA in accordance with the Conciliation Rules of the IAMA.
If the conciliation process is unsuccessful, the dispute will be referred to [ insert ], for determination.
The parties agree any such determination will be binding on them.
Meetings under this clause 8 may be held by telephone.
HREC will review Researcher's application for Approval after payment of the Fee of $2000 (excluding GST).
The Approval will be forwarded to the Researcher after the review and finalisation process, as described in the Review of ethics applications from clients not affiliated with UNSW, is complete.
The Researcher will carry out the Project in accordance with the Approval.
The Researcher will notify HREC of any matter or circumstance of which the Researcher is aware which:
a breach of or failure to comply with the Approval
changes in any material way the Project or the conduct of the Project (including discontinuance of the Project before the expected date of completion and the reasons for it)
may affect continued ethical acceptability of the Project 
is a material change to the information provided to HREC by the Researcher or a research sponsor about the Project either before or after the date of this Agreement

The Researcher acknowledges and agrees that HREC has an obligation under the National Statement to ensure that the conduct of research approved by HREC is monitored and will comply with all requirements of HREC with respect to monitoring of the Project, including but not limited to: production of documents, information and data and access to premises, equipment and personnel and participants in the Project.
The Researcher further acknowledges and agrees that HREC may conduct monitoring by way of random audit.
If requested, the Researcher will provide HREC with a report on matters including, but not limited to:
progress to date or outcome of completed research
maintenance and security of records
compliance with the Approval (including any conditions of Approval)
discontinuance of the Project for any reason
compliance with this Agreement and any requirements of the Researcher made by HREC under this Agreement
The Researcher is responsible for any costs of the Researcher or any third party of complying with this clause 2.
The Researcher will comply with any requirement made by HREC under this clause 2 within the time required by HREC.
HREC will, in its discretion normally provide a reasonable time within which the Researcher is to comply with this clause 2, but may, when it considers it appropriate for the purposes of monitoring, require immediate compliance with its requirements and the Researcher will comply on that basis.
HREC may, at any time withdraw or suspend the Approval upon being satisfied:
that the Project is not being or cannot be conducted in accordance with the Approval
the Researcher is in breach of this Agreement
On receiving notice of a withdrawal or suspension of Approval, the Researcher must immediately discontinue the conduct of Project and take all necessary steps to do this including taking all steps and actions required by HREC as a consequence of the withdrawal or suspension.
Where HREC makes a decision to withdraw or suspend the Approval in the pursuant to clause 3.1, HREC may require the Researcher to take steps to remedy or make good any harm or foreseeable harm arising from the circumstances giving rise to the withdrawal or suspension of Approval and the Researcher will take those steps as required by HREC and, unless otherwise specified by HREC, as soon as practicable.
HREC may, at any time by notice to the Researcher amend or change the Approval where satisfied that such change or amendment is required in order for the Approval to be or remain in accordance with the terms and intention of the National Statement.
The Researcher will promptly refer all complaints or concerns about the conduct of the Project to HREC to be dealt with in accordance with the usual procedure of HREC.
The Researcher may make a complaint about consideration of the Approval (including monitoring, amendment, withdrawal and suspension of an Approval) to the UNSW Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Research) which will be dealt with in accordance with the usual procedure of UNSW.
The Researcher acknowledges and agrees that the usual complaint procedures of HREC and their outcome apply to and are binding on the Researcher in relation to the Project and the Approval.
The Researcher warrants that:
all information provided to HREC in relation to the Project and the Approval whether provided before or after the date of this Agreement is true, correct and complete to the best of Researcher's knowledge and belief
the Researcher is familiar with the National Statement and all of its requirements and agrees to conduct the Project in accordance with the National Statement
it has disclosed to HREC the amount and sources or potential sources of funding for the Project and has declared any relevant affiliation or financial interest.
The Researcher is responsible for:
all costs of the Researcher and any third party incurred by reason of the Researcher complying with this Agreement and the Approval
the conduct and outcomes of the Project 
UNSW is responsible for:
the conduct of HREC
the approval and monitoring of the Project in accordance with the National Statement
The parties acknowledge and agree that nothing in this Agreement or the Approval makes either party responsible for any act or omission of the other.
Neither party may use the name or logo of the other party except with the express consent in writing of that party.
In the event of any inconsistency between this Agreement and the Approval, the terms of the Approval take priority.
UNSW has no right, liability or obligation in relation to the Project other than as set out in this Agreement.
The Researcher indemnifies UNSW for any breach by the Researcher, its servants or agents of the Approval and for any loss, damage, legal costs or liability whatsoever and howsoever arising out of or in relation to the conduct of the research (including negligence).
The liability of the Researcher to UNSW under this clause 7.2 shall be reduced to the extent that UNSW has contributed to the loss, damage or liability. 

The candidate agrees to train with the supervising surveyor in the profession of land surveying for a period of (___ normally two years___) commencing on (___date___).
The supervising surveyor will instruct the candidate in the profession of land surveying or provide opportunities for the candidate to be instructed.
The supervising surveyor will permit the candidate to attend such lectures and examinations as may necessary or required for their instruction in the profession of land surveying.
The period of training shall include the periods of experience required by the Surveyors Regulations 2003, viz:
A minimum of 2 years supervised experience, of which a minimum of 12 months is in Tasmania;
A minimum of 12 months post-graduation experience, of which a minimum of 6 months is in Tasmania;
A minimum of 18 months on cadastral boundary definition, of which a minimum of 6 months is in Tasmania.
It is expected that the candidate will be competent in all of the preceding subjects, 5.1 to 5.21, at the time of completion of the professional training agreement.
It is expected that the candidate will be aware or familiar with the following subjects, 5.22 to 5.24, at the time of completion of the professional training agreement, and that following accreditation will work in a structure with limited guidance until competent in those subjects.
While the above subjects give a basic training that will allow the registered land surveyor to practise effectively in a wide range of work; there are a number of other subjects which will either allow more efficient work in some situations or will allow specialised or unusual jobs to be carried out.
It is recommended that some such subjects be covered by each candidate - and credit will be given for such subjects.
The surveyor is solely responsible for surveys carried out under his/her supervision, and all surveyors should exercise a standard of supervision that will ensure that surveys reflects their professional responsibilities and comply with relevant statutes.
The extent of supervision will vary according to the experience and skill and ethics of the candidate.
The recommended level of supervision is as follows:-

The supervisor should fully brief the candidate on the purpose and details of the survey before the candidate commences involvement in that survey,

The supervisor should discuss all aspects of the survey with the candidate at the completion of the work,

Early in the training period the supervising surveyor should always accompany the candidate on site, until the candidate demonstrates an ability to act as team leader for some parts of the survey.
From that time onwards the frequency of on site supervision can be reduced, but-
the supervisor should be present on sufficient occasions during each survey to ensure that the candidate's problems are solved expeditiously,
the supervisor should inspect the marking and physical aspects of the survey, and the field records, closes, re-establishment etc on its completion, and
the supervisor should effect sufficient angular and linear checks of the surveys to be satisfied with the standard and accuracy of the candidate's work.
Just before the successful completion of the training agreement it is acceptable for the supervision of the candidate to be reduced for the specific purpose of the further professional development of the candidate's work attitude and ethics.
If the supervising surveyor wishes to lessen supervision (under guideline 6.4), the supervisor should advise the Board in writing that the candidate is within three months of sitting final examinations and will be receiving only off-site supervision.
The supervising surveyor will still be wholly responsible for the correctness of the surveys.
It is recommended that in the period of off-site supervision:-
in the cases of simple jobs, the supervising surveyor should inspect the field record of each job, and
in other cases the candidate should prepare a short survey report describing important aspects of each survey (particularly the re-establishment) and
that this record be retained by the supervising surveyor and forms part of the off-site supervision.
These reports could form part of the documentation presented to the Board supporting the candidate's application for registration as a land surveyor.
Acceptance of only off-site supervision is limited to the final period of a candidate's training.
It is never to be extended to a person who is not under a training agreement, no matter how extensive that person's experience.
Supervisors should act within the confines and the spirit of the certificate signed in each fieldbook (namely, "under my own personal supervision, inspection and field check") lodged during the period of a Professional Training Agreement.
The fact that the supervisor has signed the plan and fieldbook indicates satisfaction as to the accuracy of the survey, that the survey is in accordance with the regulations, and an acceptance of full responsibility for the survey.
The professional training of a candidate is an important and demanding role, not one to be undertaken lightly or for the wrong reasons.
The responsibilities of the surveyor include,:-
to provide the range of experience necessary for the candidate's development,
to provide the tuition and guidance necessary for the candidate's development (both technical and professional),
to be wholly responsible for the correct performance of jobs by the candidate,
to treat the candidate's development as of primary importance and not just an ancillary activity to the running of the firm or the correct completion of surveys,
to encourage the candidate's participation in continuing professional development courses.
to be responsible for effective feedback to the candidate on every job,
to report to the Board on a regular basis on the progress of the candidate's training.
(Refer to guideline 9).
to be responsible for the decision to put the candidate forward for examination.
The Board must depend heavily on the surveyor's opinion as to the candidate's readiness,
 	
The Professional Training Agreement should state the extent of the supervisor's responsibility (if any is accepted) for arranging or participating in training (of a stated nature) that is not available within the supervisor's firm.
To clarify the extent or basis of the agreement it is beneficial for it to list the scope of work normally done by the supervisor, and to list any necessary types of work which the supervisor does not do.
It is recognised that the supervisor is not committed to successfully complete the candidate's development within any time frame, even though a time schedule is included in the agreement.
The length of time necessary to complete the training is dependant on the ability and endeavours of the candidate.
Fundamental and general educational matters (including familiarity with Acts, regulations, guidelines and manuals) should not be neglected by the candidate.
The length of elapsed time before accreditation is expected to be heavily dependant on the amount of personal time that the candidate is prepared to contribute during (and before) the Training Agreement.
The candidate is responsible for ensuring that sufficient time is spent on continuing professional development.
The candidate is responsible for keeping records of the training received and for informing the supervisor of any slippage of time.
To clarify the basis for the agreement (and to assist in preparing an achievable time schedule) it is beneficial for the agreement to include a realistic description of the candidate's competencies, experience and knowledge before entering the agreement.
The following records should be maintained.
The maintenance of these records will help the supervising surveyor and the candidate to identify any deficiencies in the training program, and will assist with the preparation of reports to the Board (Forms 1 and 2 attached).
Each supervisor who has undertaken in-full or in-part a component of a candidate's training is required to document the categories of training and the period during which it was undertaken.
A certificate (Form 1) to that effect is required to be signed after each period.
The period and categories of training must aggregate to at least the minimum requirement set out in the Board approved agreement.
The Supervising Surveyor shall provide reports to the Board initially on a three (3) monthly basis for the first two (2) reports and thereafter on a six (6) monthly basis, covering the level of skill and knowledge of the candidate, such that the degree and complexity of work and responsibilities can be analysed.
See Form 1 attached.
The Board will monitor the progress through the reports, and where necessary provide counselling and assistance to ensure appropriate training opportunities are provided to the candidate and support is available to the Supervising Surveyor.
A statutory declaration is required to be signed by the supervisor in the agreement, testifying that in his/her opinion, the candidate is capable of successfully progressing to examination and operating as a registered land surveyor in their own right.
See Form 2)

The supervisor decides when a candidate has the all-round skills and knowledge to result in a successful completion of the Board's examination.
There will always be personal and commercial pressures that may influence the timing of that decision.
The focus must however always be on the capability of the candidate to perform as a registed surveyor in their own right.
The candidate must certify that the examination projects are their own work.
Refer to schedule 3 of the Regulations and the Guidelines for Candidates ....for more information.
The supervisor should ensure that the candidate is given the best possible support to ensure a successful result at the Board's examination.
This should include appropriate access to equipment and staff for examination surveys.
The supervising surveyor should consider work allocation when the candidate is undertaking surveys for examination, to ensure the candidate has adequate time and opportunitiy.
If circumstances arise such that the candidate's training cannot be optimally managed by the supervising surveyor, then the supervising surveyor should arrange transfer of the professional training agreement, or in extreme cases its suspension or termination.
This should be undertaken in consultation with the Board.
It is prudent for both parties to include in the Professional Training Agreement a clause that outlines the circumstances and conditions relating to the termination of the agreement.
The Board suggests that the provisions of paragraphs 13 & 14 above be fully considered before implementing such termination.
The Board must be notified of the termination of an agreement.
The notification should include evidence that both parties concur with the termination.
The Board should be provided with a Certificate of Service for its records.




The Transferor agrees to sell and the Crown agrees to purchase all title to and property rights in the work ("the Work") specified in the Schedule.
The above sale will include (but not be limited to) the unlimited assignment to the Crown of the entire copyright in the Work for the full duration of the copyright and in all territories.
The above sale will be taken to have been completed when the Crown has paid to the Transferor the purchase price described in Clause 2 ("the Completion Date").
The Crown will pay to the Transferor the purchase price of $[			], exclusive of GST, payable as specified in the Schedule.
The Transferor must deliver the Work to the Crown by the Completion Date.
The Transferor warrants to the Crown that:
it is the owner of all title to and property rights in the Work
its ownership rights include the ownership of the entire copyright in the Work for the full duration of the copyright and in all territories
no third party has any copyright or other property rights in the Work.
This Agreement will be governed by the law of Tasmania and the parties submit to the jurisdiction of the Courts of Tasmania.
Subject to any other provision of this Agreement expressing a contrary intention, if GST is imposed on a supply made under it, then the party paying for the supply must pay the amount of the GST to the party making the supply, at the same time as, and in addition to, the amount payable for the supply
A party making a taxable supply under this Agreement must give the recipient a tax invoice for the taxable supply when that supply is made.
In this clause "GST" refers to goods and services tax under A New Tax System (Goods and Services) Act 1999 ("GST Act") and the terms used have the meanings as defined in the GST Act.
The expiration or completion of this Agreement does not extinguish the warranties of the Transferor which have accrued under the Agreement and in particular the provisions, rights and obligations described in Clauses 3, 4 and 6 will survive and continue to apply.
A notice or other communication to be given or made pursuant to this Agreement must be in writing and addressed to the parties at their respective addresses specified in the Schedule.
A notice or other communication is taken to have been duly served:-
in the case of hand delivery, when delivered;
if sent by prepaid post on the fifth day after the date of posting;
if sent by facsimile transmission (provided that the sending facsimile machine produces a print out of the time date and uninterrupted transmission record of the sending of the notice) - upon completion of sending if such completion is within ordinary business hours in the place where the recipient's facsimile machine is located, but if not, then at 9.00 a.m. on the next ordinary business day in that place.


In furtherance of the Activity's objectives the Organisation will: 
provide appropriately qualified and experienced Organisation personnel in order to perform its obligations under the Agreement; 
ensure that Organisation personnel are certified by a legally qualified medical practitioner as fit to undertake the Activity to be performed in the partner country, and have received the necessary medical advice, including that on vaccinations and other preventive medical assistance appropriate to that country; 
ensure that Organisation personnel associated with the Activity are adequately briefed and understand the environment and culture of the partner country; and
be responsible for the performance and conduct of all Organisation personnel involved with the Activity including taking all reasonable endeavours to ensure that, in the course of carrying out activities, personnel comply with APS Values, the APS Code of Conduct and the Public Service Act 1999.
The Parties acknowledge the risks to successful achievement of the Activity's Purpose and to the sustainability of its benefits as set out in the Organisation's completed GPF Activity Details Proposal Form, as referred to in Schedule 1.
The Organisation agrees to monitor, report on and manage these risks.
AusAID and the Organisation agree that it is essential to ensure that the performance and impact of the Activity is adequately and effectively monitored and assessed.
Accordingly the Organisation will submit to AusAID the report specified in Schedule 1 to this Agreement, by the due date.
The financial arrangements set out in Schedule 2 (Basis of Payment) will apply to the Activity.
Except as otherwise specified, the amounts set out in Schedule 2 as payable to the Organisation are inclusive of all eligible Activity costs to be met out of the GPF funding.
AusAID will make payment of any sums due to be paid under Schedule 2 (if any) within 30 days of receipt of a correctly rendered invoice.
An invoice is correctly rendered if:
the invoice is for an amount calculated correctly in accordance with entitlements under Schedule 2; and
a person holding the necessary authority has certified that the invoice has been correctly calculated.
If an invoice is rendered incorrectly, any underpayment or overpayment will be recoverable by or from the Organisation making payment against the invoice as the case may be and may be offset against or added to amounts subsequently due from that Organisation.
AusAID need not pay an amount disputed in good faith by it until the dispute is resolved.
The Organisation will keep proper and detailed accounts and records in relation to any services or works performed or expenditure incurred by the Organisation under this Agreement including in relation to foreign exchange transactions.
The Organisation will maintain such accounts and records for a minimum period of seven years following expiry or termination of the Agreement.
The Organisation will provide AusAID with sufficient access to its financial management information to enable AusAID to monitor expenditure, resolve queries, complete internal audit processes and comply with regulatory requirements and procedures including without limitation those imposed by the Financial Management and Accountability Act (1997) and the Australian National Audit Office.
The full legal rights to all Intellectual Property arising out of the Activity will be owned by the Commonwealth.
Responsibility for and arrangements regarding the registration, licensing and other matters associated with protection of such Intellectual Property will be agreed between AusAID and the Organisation  and in accordance with any Treaty or Memorandum of Understanding between the Commonwealth and the benefiting country that may apply.
This may include granting the benefiting country a permanent, irrevocable, royalty-free, worldwide, no-exclusive licence to use, reproduce, adapt and otherwise exploit the material for the purposes of the benefiting country.
The Parties may amend this Agreement at any time by agreement in writing signed by their authorised representatives.
If either Party considers that the whole or any part of the Agreement should be suspended or terminated for whatever reason it will advise the other Party and both Parties will mutually agree upon the procedures for suspension or termination.
If the Agreement is terminated either: 
the Organisation will refund to AusAID the funds advanced at Schedule 2 less the amounts to be agreed with AusAID in accordance with Clause 11.2 below; or 

AusAID will pay the Organisation an amount in accordance with Clause 11.2 below.
If the Agreement is terminated the amounts repaid or paid in accordance with Clause 11.1 above will be based on the following: 
a fair and reasonable amount calculated in proportion to the work performed prior to termination; 
reimbursement of costs incurred prior to termination; and 

reimbursement of costs incidental to the orderly termination of the Agreement.
The Parties undertake to use all reasonable efforts in good faith to resolve any disputes which arise between them in connection with this Agreement.
Subject to Clause 8.2 (d) (Payments and Invoices) and unless otherwise agreed by the Parties, the Parties will at all times during the dispute proceed to fulfil their obligations under this Agreement.
The Parties may disclose matters relating to the Agreement, including the Agreement, except where such information may breach the Privacy Act 1988 (Cth), to governmental departments and agencies, Ministers and Parliamentary Secretaries, and to Parliament, including responding to requests for information from Parliamentary committees or inquiries.
The Parties must not, without the prior written approval of the other Party, make public or disclose to any person any Confidential Information.
In giving written approval, the Party may impose such terms and conditions as in the Party's opinion are appropriate.
Statements to the media or articles relating to the services or the Agreement are to be approved in writing by AusAID prior to release or publication.
Each Party confirms that no conflict of interest exists or is likely to arise in relation to the performance of its obligations under this Agreement.
Each Party will use its best endeavours to ensure that no such conflict of interest arises and will notify the other Party promptly in the event that a potential or actual conflict of interest arising out of the performance of this Agreement arises.
In such circumstances the Parties will discuss and agree to the taking of such actions as may be necessary to ensure that the conflict of interest is avoided.
Each Party will use its best endeavours to ensure that no offer, gift or payment, consideration or benefit of any kind that would or could be considered an illegal or corrupt practice, will be made or received either directly or indirectly, as an inducement or reward in relation to the performance of this Agreement including the selection and engagement of any contractors by either Party.
The Parties note their obligations:

to comply with the Australian Government's policy and laws consistent with relevant international counter-terrorism Treaties and UN Security Council Resolutions of not providing direct or indirect support or resources to organisations and individuals associated with terrorism; and
to ensure that funding provided under this Agreement is expended in a manner consistent with UN Security Council Resolutions and related Australian laws.
If during the course of this Agreement any link whatsoever is discovered with any organisation or individual associated with terrorism, the Party that becomes aware of the link will immediately inform the other Party.
The contact officer for each Party and each Party's address for the service of notices under this Agreement are as follows:
The Organisation will commence the Activity on [start date] and complete the Activity by [end date].
The Activity will be implemented in accordance with the Proposal 
The Organisation will be responsible for all administrative and travel arrangements associated with this Activity.
The Organisation will provide the relevant Australian Embassy (addressed to the AusAID officer where practicable) advance notice of planned travel by its officials to the region in relation to this Activity, including:

title of the Activity and the number of this Agreement;
name and designation of the officer(s) travelling;
travel itinerary of the officer(s) travelling; and
brief statement of the objectives of the visit.
The Organisation will inform AusAID immediately if and when it becomes aware of any emerging issues or circumstances that will slow Activity implementation.
Within six (6) weeks of completion of the Activity, an Activity Completion Report ("the ACR") will be prepared by the Agency and delivered to AusAID.
The ACR will detail outcomes from each of the activities supported and will include a full acquittal of funds advanced under GPF.
The ACR must be in the format outlined in Schedule 3 and be prepared in consultation with, and co-signed by, the relevant partner country/countries counterpart agency/ agencies.
The ACR must be provided in both hard copy (one copy) and soft copy, the latter in software compatible with AusAID systems (Microsoft Office).
The ACR must: 
be accurate and not misleading in any respect;
enable an assessment of achievements made under the Agreement; 
be provided in the format and on the media requested by AusAID; and
be provided at the time specified in this Schedule.
The financial limitation of this Agreement is $AInsert Amount plus GST if any up to a maximum amount of $AInsert Amount.
AusAID shall not be liable for any costs or expenditure incurred by the Organisation in excess of this amount.
AusAID will pay the Organisation the sum of $AInsert Amount (plus GST if any) in accordance with the agreed budget in the Proposal.
Payment will be as follows: Within thirty (30) days of signing of this Agreement and presentation to AusAID of a valid Tax Invoice, AusAID will advance $AInsert Amount plus GST if any up to a maximum amount of $AInsert Amount to the Organisation in the form of an accountable cash grant.
In accordance with Clause 3.2 of Schedule 1 of this Agreement, the Organisation must submit a certified statement acquitting funds advanced against the agreed indicative budget as part of its Activity Completion Report.
Any uncommitted part of the advance provided will be refunded to AusAID with the acquittal statement and be accompanied by a Tax Adjustment Notice in accordance with GST requirements (in particular GST Ruling 2000/1A - Addendum - Goods and Services Tax : Adjustment Notes).
This Activity Completion Report should not exceed 4 pages (plus attachments) as provided for in the following format.
Completed Reports should be forwarded, to: The Governance Manager, GPF Program, Indonesia Group, AusAID, GPO Box 887, CANBERRA ACT 2601. 


The University requires the Contractor to perform the Services detailed in the Schedule to this Agreement.
The parties have agreed that the Services will be provided on the terms and conditions contained in this Agreement.
This Agreement will begin on the Start Date and will continue for the Term set out in Item 2 of the Schedule.
The Contractor agrees:
to provide the Services to the University in accordance with this Agreement;
to perform its obligations under this Agreement in a competent and professional manner and to ensure that all staff employed or sub-contracted to carry out the Contractor's obligations are of a standard sufficient to satisfy its obligations under this Agreement;  
to comply with all reasonable instructions and directions issued by officers of the University; and
to comply with all occupational health and safety requirements of the University and all equal opportunity and other work place policies of the University while on University premises.
The University's Environmental Health and Safety Manual can be viewed at: http://www.unimelb.edu.au/ehsm/
The Contractor warrants that the use by the University of any products or materials provided in connection with the Services will not breach third party intellectual property rights.
The Contractor warrants that it has the appropriate licences, rights and/or title to any products or materials provided in connection with the Services.
The University agrees to pay the Contractor the fees set out in Item 4 of the Schedule in the manner described in Item 4 of the Schedule within 30 days of the end of the month in which the Contractor submits the relevant tax invoice subject to the following sub-clause.
Despite anything set out in this Agreement or any other arrangement, the University will not be obliged to pay any fees or expenses to the Contractor until it is reasonably satisfied with the Services provided by the Contractor.
The fees stated in Item 4 of the Schedule are inclusive of taxes, duties and charges imposed or levied in Australia in connection with the supply of the Services, including GST.
If the Services require the Contractor to create or produce data, information, materials or anything which may be subject to copyright or which constitute intellectual property of whatsoever nature ("Contract Materials") those Contract Materials are owned by the University as and when they are created or produced.
The Contractor undertakes to execute all documentation and do all things necessary to assign to the University the Contractor's interest in Contract Materials and to give effect to this clause.
The Contractor indemnifies the University against all claims, demands, charges or expenses made against or incurred by the University as a result of any breach by the Contractor, its employees, agents or contractors, of this Agreement or any negligent or wilful act or omission by the Contractor, its employees, agents or contractors except to the extent to which such claims, demands, charges or expenses are caused by or contributed to by the University.
The Contractor agrees to take out and maintain Public Liability Insurance to cover the performance of its obligations under this agreement to the amount of ten million dollars ($10,000,000) and must provide written proof of maintenance of such insurance to the University on request.
The Contractor agrees to take out and maintain Professional Indemnity Insurance to cover the performance of its obligations under this agreement to the amount of five million dollars ($5,000,000) and must provide written proof of maintenance of such insurance to the University on request.
The Contractor covenants to keep confidential and ensure its employees, agents and contractors keep confidential: 
all Confidential Information;
all information provided by the University to the Contractor for the purposes of   this Agreement; 
all information created as a result of this Agreement;
and agrees not to disclose such information without the prior written approval of the University.
The Contractor agrees to comply with the Privacy Acts, any approved Privacy Codes and with the University's Privacy Policy and Guidelines as amended from time to time in respect of any personal or health information held by the University which the Contractor becomes aware of or has access to in connection with this Agreement and any personal or health information collected, held, managed, used, disclosed or transferred by the Contractor in connection with this Agreement.
The University's privacy policy can be located at: http://www.unimelb.edu.au/unisec/privacy 
The expression "personal or health information" used above means personal information as defined in the Information Privacy Act 2000 (Victoria) or health information as defined in the Health Records Act 2001 (Victoria).
The term "Privacy Acts" used above means the Information Privacy Act 2000 (Victoria) and the Health Records Act 2001 (Victoria).
Either party may terminate this Agreement by notice in writing to the other party if the other party is in breach of a term or condition of this Agreement and the breach is not remedied within fourteen (14) days of service on the other party of a written notice specifying the breach and requiring it to be remedied.
If the Contractor breaches any provision of this Agreement, the University may after seven days written notice to the Contractor, suspend the payment of any amounts otherwise due under this Agreement until the breach is remedied by the Contractor.
Either party may terminate the Agreement immediately if the other party: 
enters into any arrangement between itself and its (or any class of its) creditors;
ceases to be able to pay its debts as they become due;
ceases to carry on business;
has a mortgagee enter into possession or disposes of the whole or any part of its assets or business;
enters into liquidation or any form of insolvency administration; or
has a receiver, a receiver and manager, a trustee in bankruptcy, an administrator, a liquidator, a provisional liquidator or other like person appointed to the whole or any part of its assets or business.
Termination of the Agreement (for whatever cause) will not affect any right or cause of action which has accrued to the party which terminates the Agreement at or prior to the date of termination.
A party claiming that a dispute has arisen under this Agreement (Dispute) must notify the other party giving written details of the Dispute.
The parties agree to negotiate in good faith on a commercially realistic basis to resolve the Dispute and will refer resolution of the Dispute to officers within each party who are authorised to hear the Dispute before commencing any legal proceedings in relation to the Dispute.
Any Dispute which cannot be settled under clause 12.1 within a reasonable time must be referred for determination by a person appointed for that purpose by the Parties and failing Agreement, appointed by the President of the Institute of Arbitrators and Mediators Australia (Victorian Division).
Any determination made under the above clause is binding on the parties and the Commercial Arbitration Act 1984 (Vic) applies to the determination except to the extent otherwise agreed by the Parties.
Nothing in this clause 10 will prevent a party from seeking interlocutory relief.
This Agreement is subject to the Special Conditions (if any) set out in Item 5 of the Schedule.
In the event of inconsistency between the Special Conditions and the provisions of the Agreement, the Special Conditions apply.
Governing law.
The laws that are applicable in Victoria, Australia govern this Agreement and each party submits to the jurisdiction of the courts of that state and any courts which may hear appeals from those courts.
Entire Agreement.
This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement between the parties in connection with its subject matter and supersedes all previous agreements or understandings between the parties in connection with its subject matter.
Amendment.
This Agreement may only be amended in writing signed by the parties.
Assignment.
A party may only assign the Agreement and any rights under the Agreement with the prior written consent of the other party.
Waiver.
A party does not waive a right, power or remedy if it fails to exercise or delays in exercising that right, power or remedy.
A single or partial exercise of a right, power or remedy does not prevent another or further exercise of that or another right, power or remedy.
A waiver of a right, power or remedy must be in writing and signed by the party granting the waiver.
Severance.
Any term of this Agreement which is void, illegal or unenforceable may be severed from this Agreement and the remaining terms or parts of the term of this Agreement continue in force.
Notices.
Notices to or by a party delivered in person are deemed to be given by the sender and received by the addressee when delivered to the addressee: if by post, 3 Business Days from and including the date of postage; or if by facsimile, when transmitted to the addressee provided that if transmission is on a day which is not a Business Day or is after 5.00 pm (addressee's time) on the next Business Day.
Force Majeure.
Neither party will be liable to the other for the consequences of any delays or failures of its performance which are caused by any event beyond the first party's reasonable control, including without limitation acts of God, fire, flood, accident, terrorism, strike and riots and either party may terminate the Agreement if such an event occurs and continues for a period of 30 days or more.

The terms of this Agreement will apply when you return a signed copy of this Agreement to us, or accept one of our employees on a temporary basis, after receiving a copy of this Agreement.
The Agreement will continue to remain in force, until it has been validly terminated (excepting that some clauses will survive the termination of this Agreement, where indicated).
We shall provide our employees to perform services for you on a temporary basis, upon your request, subject to our receiving from you a description of the temporary position which you require to be filled and sufficient details concerning the nature of the services which you require to be performed.
The hourly rates which we will charge you for providing the services of our employees are set out in the Schedule.
We can amend our rates by sending to you an amended Schedule in which case, the amended rates will apply from the date you receive the amended Schedule, or from the date on which the amended Schedule is to commence, as indicated on the Schedule.
If we are reasonably satisfied that you have breached clause 7 below and this results in one or more of our employees sustaining an injury, we will be entitled to increase our rates to reflect any corresponding increase in our workers' compensation premiums.
Our charges will be based on the number of hours worked by our employees on Assignment, as recorded in our timesheets which have been signed by you and/or as verified by our employees.
You agree to complete time sheets accurately and to submit them to us promptly.
We will send invoices regularly to you, and such invoices are to be paid by you within seven (7) days of their date.
Payments are to be made as prescribed in the Schedule.
If you do not pay such invoices within seven (7) days of their date, you will be liable to pay us interest on the amounts contained in those invoices, calculated at the rate of 2% per annum above the official interest rate as set from time to time by the Reserve Bank of Australia.
If payment is not received by VIP Personnel within the prescribed time, you will incur all associated costs in recovering the monies, including but not limited to debt collection agency fees and commission, and legal fees.
Either party may terminate this Agreement by giving two weeks notice to the other party.
If you terminate this Agreement in accordance with clause 5.1, you will still be liable to pay to us all outstanding charges  (including any outstanding disbursements which you may have previously approved) and any Subsequent Placement Fees, in accordance with clause 8.2 below.
You will also be liable to pay us the Consultation Fee, for services rendered, which is set out in the Schedule, and which we may waive at our discretion.
You may also terminate an Assignment, at your sole discretion, immediately, if at any time the employee becomes:
charged with any criminal offence which, in your reasonable opinion, brings you, us, or the employee into serious disrepute;
of unsound mind, or is a person who is or whose assets are liable to be dealt with under any law relating to mental health;
unable or unwilling to carry out reasonable directions given by you;
guilty of misconduct;
fails to carry out his or her duties diligently for your benefit;
acts inappropriately or engages in unprofessional conduct, designed or likely to, or which may have the effect of, causing damage to the reputation of you or the employee.
If you are not satisfied with the performance of any one of our employees, and want them replaced, you agree to liaise with us and not to our employee about the replacement of that employee.
In this regard you agree:
Not to communicate anything to the employee indicating that their Assignment will be cancelled (or words to that effect); and
To contact us as soon as is reasonably practicable if you have a serious problem with the performance of the employee.
We agree:
To ensure that our employees will be covered by any statutory policies of workers' compensation, which will be in force in relation the employees during the currency of an Assignment.
To be responsible for the collection, payment or remittance of any taxes in accordance with our statutory obligations.
You agree:
To provide us with full and accurate information concerning your service requirements, including written descriptions relating to any temporary positions which you require to be filled and services which you require to be performed.
That you will contact us if you wish to significantly change the job function or system of work that applies to our employees on an Assignment and to comply with our reasonable requests to ensure the workplace health and safety of our employees.
You also agree to provide induction, training and safety consumables to our employees, where appropriate.
To comply with your obligations to our employees pursuant to any relevant legislation, including legislation relating to the workplace and occupational health and safety and discrimination.
To notify us immediately of an event that is likely to give rise to a claim on any insurance policy that relates to any one of our employees.
That if any one of our employees sustains an injury which is compensable under any law relating to workers' compensation or occupational health and safety, you will assist, where practicable, with the rehabilitation of our employee by way of providing our employee, through us, with suitable work (including light duties) once our employee is able to return to work.
In the event that such work is provided, and is of a lesser value, classification or remuneration than the work principally contracted for under the Assignment, we will discount our charges by the percentage set out in the Schedule.
To report to us in relation to any performance issues in relation to our employees in a written format, so that we may counsel the employees correctly if necessary.
To forward to us copies of any accident or near miss reports which involve our employees.
To keep confidential any information we provide to you about our employees or potential employees, whether written or verbal, including the fact that they are looking for a new position.
This clause will survive the termination of this Agreement.
After any one of our employees has completed an Assignment with you, you agree not to contact that employee directly to offer them work, without our prior consent, which will not be unreasonably withheld.
You also agree not to pay our employees directly for their services on an Assignment

If you (or a Related Body Corporate) appoint any one of our employees, previously supplied to you on an Assignment, as a member of your staff (whether in a casual or in a permanent position) you agree to pay us the following Placement Fee within seven (7) days of engaging that employee:
A sum representing 10% of the equivalent gross annual remuneration of the employee (or each if more than one) in their previous year of employment, applying to their employment with us; or
Where the employee has worked for you on a casual or ad hoc basis, or for a period of less than 12 months, the sum of $1,500.00.
GST
We will charge you GST of 10% (or such other amount as may be prescribed by appropriate legislation from time to time) in addition to all fees for services provided.
We shall also ensure that any invoice rendered to you satisfies the requirement of a tax invoice for the purposes of the GST legislation.
We will not be liable to you in respect of any loss or damage however caused, whether by our negligence or the acts, omissions or negligence of our employees, whilst they are on Assignment with you, whether directly or indirectly, in respect of the services provided under this Agreement.
Where any Act of Parliament implies in this Agreement any term and such a term voids or prohibits provisions in an agreement excluding, restricting or modifying the application of the provisions of that Act; or any liability for a breach of a condition or warranty implied by the provisions of any Act; such a term shall be deemed to be included in this Agreement.
Our liability for any breach of such a term shall be limited, however, at our option to any one of more of the following:
providing the services again; or
the payment of the cost of providing the services.
This Agreement shall not be altered, modified or amended in any manner except by written agreement between the parties, or as otherwise indicated in this Agreement.
The failure of a party at any time:
to enforce or require strict compliance with a provision of this Agreement; or
to make an election or to exercise a discretion under this Agreement, 
does not operate as a waiver or postponement of any right, power or remedy which a party may have under this Agreement.
Unless expressly permitted by this Agreement, a party shall not assign, either in whole or in part, their rights or obligations under this Agreement.
If a provision of this Agreement is declared to be invalid, unenforceable, illegal or contrary to public policy, such invalidity, unenforceability or illegality shall vitiate the provision only and that provision shall be deemed deleted or modified to the extent necessary to render the remainder of the provisions valid or enforceable, and shall not otherwise in any way vitiate any other provision of this Agreement.
I / We agree that VIP may obtain a credit report containing information about me / us from a credit reporting agency for the purposes of assessing my / our application for commercial credit and collecting overdue repayments relating to commercial credit owed by the Company to VIP.
We acknowledge that if we do not provide VIP with this consent, VIP may not be able to process our application for commercial credit.
VIP may give information about us to a credit reporting agency to obtain a consumer credit report about us and/or to allow the credit reporting agency to create or maintain a credit information file containing information about us.
This information will be limited to:

The company that will be collecting credit information in the manner described in this credit information consent is V.I.P.
Personnel Pty Ltd (ACN 007 272 451).
The individual, organisation, or company in relation to which credit information is collected may access information V.I.P holds about it by contacting VIP on (03) 9650 9206.
The Client (Host Employer) will;
meet their obligations under the OH&S Act, Regulations and approved Codes of Practice and agree that V.I.P have a right to monitor their employee's health and safety while working for the client
provide the necessary information to ensure that the appropriate labour hire employees are provided
do all things reasonably practicable to eliminate hazards and control risks to health and safety and correct any hazards identified during hazard inspections and provide details of the appropriate changes to V.I.P.
Personnel
provide workers with appropriate supervision consistent with the risks to health and safety associated with the job or at the workplace
induct all labour hire employees placed in the workplace into any relevant health and safety information, prior to the commencement of work.
The induction will include a briefing on emergency response/evacuation procedures for the workplace and who should be contacted if they require emergency or first aid assistance and all other details relevant to the workplace and work performed
inform V.I.P.
of any fundamental variation in workplace, work practices, procedures or conditions prior to the commencement of work.
The workers are only available to work on those jobs for which they have been trained and assigned.
Workers must not work outside the scope of the hiring contract
advise V.I.P.
immediately of any accident in which one of our employees is involved.
The client will also actively cooperate and work along side V.I.P.
Personnel in following up all incidents or near misses with a joint inspection and joint follow up action where required
provide assistance where available and appropriate in facilitating a return to work plan for the injured worker (no cost to be incurred by the Client)
V.I.P.
Personnel will;
monitor the health and safety of all contract employees and ensure that the Clients are abiding by their obligations as outlined above
provide Occupational Health and Safety procedures and rules for its employees working on Clients sites aimed at the prevention of accidents
provide a comprehensive rehabilitation program in the event that an injury does occur.
Cost occurred in relation to a Work Cover claim will be the sole responsibility of V.I.P.
regularly liaise with all clients concerning the health and safety of its employees with the aim of continually improving the safety of the workplace and its systems
employ the right person for each job so that persons are not unnecessarily put at risk of injury to themselves or others persons
endeavour to eliminate or control any hazards identified by employees through communication with the client
provide an incident/accident reporting and investigation procedure to identify the means of preventing a reoccurrence of injury, illness or accident
periodically visit the clients premises and work with the nominated OH&S representative to ensure that V.I.P.
have the most up to date information on the Clients site as well as their needs
It is policy of V.I.P.
that all work activities shall be undertaken with all measures considered reasonable and practical, in order to minimise and where possible eliminate any hazards, exposure or risks to health by its employees and the employees of host clients.

Health information under this Agreement will be gathered and maintained nationally with the approval of the Australian Health Ministers' Advisory Council, and within the framework of the national health information governance arrangements outlined in Clause 5 of, and Schedule A to, this Agreement.
National collections will use data from surveys of the Australian population as well as data contributed by the Parties, their agents or by other parties.
The level of data contributed to national collections, being at an appropriate level of aggregation or unit record, will be agreed for each collection.
National statistical data linkage which supports research and analysis on health and related issues will be considered by the parties on a case by case basis in accordance with agreed privacy and ethical guidelines.
Responsibility for the quality and completeness of contributed data will remain with the Party providing the data.
A business case will need to be made for the development of any new National Minimum Data Sets for health or significant changes to National Minimum Data Sets for health.
Approval of the business case will be the responsibility of the Statistical Information Management Committee, with advice from the Health Data Standards Committee where appropriate.
Any such business case must accommodate, where appropriate, other national data imperatives of reporting requirements such as the Australian Health Care Agreements (AHCAs).
Unless in the public domain, data provided by a Party remains the sole property of that individual Party and therefore release, publication or other use of the data by any other party or group will be within any arrangements set by the providing party.
When publishing or releasing any national health information each Party shall acknowledge the authorship as advised by the provider of the data.
Users of the information will be expected to respect the custodial role and ownership rights of collecting parties and no Party shall be obliged to supply any information or to identify its origin if by so doing it would jeopardise that Party's continuing access to the information.
All information contributed by Parties to this Agreement will be provided in good faith as to its accuracy and any legal or other liability arising from the use of any information supplied to national collections shall be the responsibility of the publishing Party.
Any transfer or storage of data for national collections will be in a manner that prevents unauthorised access.
Unpublished national health information may be made available according to agreed privacy and ethical considerations and by agreement with the providers of the information.
The Parties will agree and comply with definitions and standards for national information collections, including completeness and timeliness standards.
The Agreement is a multilateral agreement between the Parties and operates under the auspices of the Australian Health Ministers' Advisory Council (AHMAC).
The owner of the information is the collecting authority.
Owners also may have custodial roles in respect of information they receive from and manage for other parties.
Information will be made available nationally to all levels of the health system according to ethical and privacy considerations discussed elsewhere in this document.
The owner may specify conditions regarding the use, release and publication of information and such other considerations as are reasonable and necessary.
Release of otherwise unpublished information to any party requires the approval of the owner or to be within the conditions specified.
Agreed definitions and standards will be applied rigorously to ensure that information is capable of national comparison.
Information will be collected in such a way that it is timely and of high quality.
Information will be collected and maintained by the Parties to the Agreement who will release it in a way consistent with agreed national protocols, definitions and standards.
Even though this Agreement is about health information rather than personal health information, policies and practices which protect the privacy of individual's information and ensure the responsible handling of health information will provide the foundation for the information collected and published under the auspices of this Agreement.
Information will be collected, disseminated, secured and used in such a way as to protect the privacy and confidentiality of any individual and/or organisation to whom it may refer.
In particular, all State/Territory and Commonwealth of Australia legislation and policies including privacy/confidentiality arrangements and requirements and established ethical guidelines and practices; and freedom of information legislation and policy will be complied with in any formal or informal arrangements made under this Agreement.
All parties will respect the rights to privacy and confidentiality requirements of any person or organisation named or otherwise identified in any information resource.
The concerns of individuals who are members of minority or small community groups regarding privacy are acknowledged and advice on such concerns will be sought from State and/or other authorities.
The costs of implementing agreed activities will generally be met by the Parties as a component of their own work programs.
However, reciprocal arrangements may be made between the Parties to meet specific needs for additional collections, specific analyses or provision of additional expertise.
Proposals for alternative resourcing may be developed where national benefit can be identified.
Thus, funding may be sought under the Agreement where work on specific health information issues imposes additional costs on a signatory, where there are economies of scale to be gained, or where joint action of the Parties contributes to meeting the objectives of the Agreement.
The parties will agree on the distribution of any income generated.
The cost recovery policy of each of the contributing Parties will be made explicit in respect of agreed Work Program activities.
There will be a rolling work program agreed by the Australian Health Ministers' Advisory Council.
The Work Program will take account of the resource constraints of the Parties.
The Work Program will outline the projects which will be undertaken.
It will include a detailed program for the coming year providing details of the specific projects and the agencies responsible for coordination and management of each project.
An annual report on the progress of each project will be prepared by the agency responsible and circulated to the Parties by the Secretariat for the Statistical Information Management Committee and submitted to the National Health Information Group.
All Parties agree to cooperate in the improvement of health information standards.
The National Health Data Dictionary will be the authoritative source of data definitions.
Data standards adopted by Australian Bureau of Statistics and authoritative international organisations will be employed wherever possible and variations made explicit when this is not possible.
Every attempt will be made to involve other sectors collecting and using health information in the processes of this Agreement.
The Agreement will operate for a period of five years and after review (to be commenced 12 months prior to the expiry date of the Agreement), for a further period as agreed by all the Parties.
The parties also agree to an additional review to commence within 12 months of signing the Agreement to consider changes to the national health information governance arrangements and other matters.
The Agreement may be amended at any time by agreement between all the Parties.
Additional parties may become Parties to the Agreement if all existing Parties agree.
A party proposing to withdraw should give six months notice.
If a Party withdraws, the Agreement will continue to operate in respect of all other Parties.
The Agreement may be terminated at any time by agreement in writing of the remaining Parties.
This Agreement will operate under the auspices of the Australian Health Ministers' Advisory Council (AHMAC).
The AHMAC will be the ultimate authority for resolving issues relating to the Agreement including determination of national priorities, the work program and other management matters.
The National Health Information Group (NHIG), and a number of its Standing Committees have specific responsibilities for matters related to the Agreement.
Schedule A sets out the roles of the various Committees (as amended by NHIG from time to time) in management and implementation of the Agreement.
The individual Parties will meet the cost of their participation in the operation and management of the Agreement.
All parties to the Agreement will be responsible for:
providing representation on the NHIG overseeing the Agreement, and on other Standing Committees as agreed by the NHIG;
acting as the responsible agency for specific projects as agreed;  and
providing information and specialist advice on activities and collections for which they have responsibility.
In addition, the Commonwealth Department of Health and Ageing, the Commonwealth Department of Veterans' Affairs, the Health Insurance Commission, the Australian Institute of Health and Welfare and State/Territory Health Authorities will be responsible for:

ensuring that the information they collect, maintain and collate is consistent with the national protocols, definitions and standards contained in the National Health Data Dictionary and other guidelines endorsed by the NHIG;

maintaining the information they collect under the aegis of the Agreement in such a way that it can be readily made available to approved individuals, groups and authorities for purposes which require access to national health information kept under the terms of the Agreement; and

ensuring that the information they hold is maintained in such a way as to ensure that the privacy provisions of the Agreement are observed.
In addition, the specific responsibilities of the parties to the Agreement are set out below.
The Australian Bureau of Statistics, consistent with its functions, including statistical coordination, will be responsible for:

collecting, compiling, analysing and disseminating statistics and related information for which they have specific responsibility; 
developing and promoting compliance with statistical standards; and
providing specialist advice in relation to statistics.
The AIHW will also be responsible for:

convening and providing secretariat assistance to the committees as set out in Schedule A to this Agreement;

in consultation with the ABS, developing specialised statistical standards and classifications relevant to health and health services;

undertaking specific research, using national data, to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the health care system;

assisting other Parties to the Agreement in using and interpreting national health information; and

ensuring that the National Health Data Dictionary and other quality control standards to encourage accuracy and consistency in the collection and reporting of health information are maintained and enhanced as agreed by the NHIG reporting to AHMAC.
The Commonwealth Department of Health and Ageing, the Commonwealth Department of Veterans' Affairs, the Health Insurance Commission and State and Territory Health Authorities:

will also be responsible for maintaining and providing information in accordance with agreed purposes and data sets.
The Agreement will commence on 1 September 2004.
It supersedes any predecessor Agreement that may otherwise remain in force.
This Agreement may be signed in counterpart and the counterparts taken together all constitute the same Agreement.
The NHIG is also responsible for:
overseeing the implementation and ongoing development of the National Health Information Agreement; 
managing and allocating resources to health information projects and working groups;
endorsing national information standards, including National Minimum Data Sets; and
endorsing the work plans of committees which report to it, including the Statistical Information Management Committee  (SIMC) and the Health Data Standards Committee (HDSC), the National Advisory Group on Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health Information and Data (NAGATSIHID) and the National Public Health Information Working Group (NPHIWG).
The SIMC is responsible, under the direction of the NHIG, for:
developing, reviewing and implementing the National Health Information Agreement and coordinating all proposals to the NHIG concerning the Agreement;
developing national health information priorities and the associated work plan;
developing and coordinating the implementation of National Minimum Data Sets; and
negotiating with other groups and individuals for the collection and dissemination of information which will enhance the provision of health information.
The SIMC is also responsible for advising the NHIG on national health information priorities and on national health statistics.
The SIMC will include representatives of parties to this Agreement and other members as agreed by NHIG from time to time, with a chair appointed by the NHIG.
The HDSC is responsible for:
maintaining the development and revision of the National Health Data Dictionary and developing, maintaining and promoting the use of appropriate metadata standards; and
reviewing and making recommendations for SIMC endorsement about National Minimum Data Sets in the health field.
The HDSC will include representatives of parties to this Agreement, as well as representatives or other agencies or interests as agreed by the NHIG from time to time.
The NAGATSIHID is responsible for:
providing NHIG with broad strategic advice on the improvement of the quality and availability of data and information on Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander health and health service delivery; 
drawing together a range of activities in relation to health information and data on Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders to provide a coordinated and strategic process;
continuing the implementation of the National Indigenous Health Information Plan (NHIP) until this process is completed;
advising AIHW and ABS on priorities in its workplan; and
providing advice to NHIG and the Steering Committee for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health (SCATSIH) on the National Performance Indicators and targets for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health reporting and associated activities.



The Commonwealth agrees to make available on loan to the Borrower the Equipment for the purpose of:
Preparing their tender in response to the RFT; and
If selected to participate in the Parallel Offer Definition Activity (PODA), conducting engineering design and integration activities in accordance with the PODA Deed, if executed.
The loan shall be for a period of commencing from the day of execution of this Agreement, and ceasing on the day in which any of the following conditions become true:
The Parallel Offer Definition Activity (PODA), as stipulated in the RFT, is completed;
Any extension period beyond the completion of the PODA, granted in writing by the Commonwealth, expires;
The Borrower is excluded from the RFT process;
The Borrower elects not to submit a tender in response to the RFT, or elects at any time to terminate involvement in the RFT process; or
The Commonwealth terminates the Agreement and advises the Borrower in writing.
The Borrower shall permit the Commonwealth to affix plates or marks to the Equipment to identify it as Commonwealth property and shall not allow any such plate or mark to be removed, obliterated, defaced or covered up.
The Borrower hereby acknowledges that the value of the Equipment described in column 1 of Item 1 of the Schedule is the value specified in column 3 of Item 1 of the Schedule opposite the description.
The Borrower shall nominate, in writing, a point of delivery for the Equipment within Australia.
Unless otherwise agreed by the parties in writing, the Commonwealth shall be responsible for the safe packing and transportation of the Equipment from its point of delivery to the location of the Borrower's nominated Australian point of delivery.
The cost of safe package and transportation shall be at the expense of the Commonwealth.
The Commonwealth shall not be liable for any costs of international transportation of the Equipment.
The Borrower shall acknowledge receipt of the Equipment within 48 hours of the Equipment being delivered.
Upon the expiry or sooner termination of this Agreement, the Borrower shall deliver the Equipment to the Commonwealth to the destination as the Commonwealth may stipulate, in the same condition as at the commencement of the loan, subject to fair wear and tear.
The cost of such delivery shall be at the expense of the Borrower.
The Commonwealth warrants that at the commencement of this Agreement, the Equipment is fit for its purpose and is in reasonable working condition.
The Borrower shall be entitled to use the Equipment only for the purpose(s) specified at clause 2.1 or such other purposes as otherwise agreed in writing by the parties.
The Borrower shall at all times operate the Equipment in accordance with:
any guidelines, regulations or requirements issued by the Commonwealth;
all safety, public health or other regulations which are applicable to the Equipment or its operation; and
the specifications or requirements of the manufacturer of the Equipment.
The Equipment shall be, and remain, the property of the Commonwealth notwithstanding any mode or degree of installing or affixing the Equipment at the Borrower's premises.
The Borrower shall not pledge or create any lien or charge upon the Equipment or allow it to be taken in any execution, seizure, levy, registration, liquidation, injunction or other process.
The Borrower shall take all reasonable steps to ensure the proper installation, protection, safe custody and security of the Equipment.
The Borrower shall maintain the Equipment in good working order and condition.
Any costs associated with the maintenance of the Equipment shall be paid by the Borrower.
During the period of the loan, the Borrower shall not make any alteration, addition or modification to any of the Equipment except with the prior written consent of the Commonwealth.
The Borrower shall immediately advise the Commonwealth in writing of any loss of or damage to any part of the Equipment.
The Borrower indemnifies the Commonwealth against liability of the Commonwealth arising out of the Agreement under any law of a State or Territory relating to Worker's Compensation and owed to any person deemed by such a law to be employed by the Borrower.
Before taking delivery of the Equipment, the Borrower must insure against liability of the Borrower arising out of the Agreement in accordance with this clause 12.
The Borrower indemnifies the Commonwealth's officers, employees and agents against:
loss of or damage to, property of the Commonwealth (including the Equipment);
claims by any person in respect of personal injury or death except to the extent that the Borrower's indemnity under clause 12.1applies;
claims by any person in respect of, or loss of, or damage to, any property; and
costs and expenses including the costs of defending or settling any claim referred to in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this clause 12.3; 
arising out of or as a consequence of any unlawful or negligent act or omission of any person (other than any officer, employee or agent of the Commonwealth) arising out of the Agreement.
Before taking delivery of the Equipment, the Borrower must insure against liabilities arising out of the Borrower's indemnities under clause 12.3.
The Borrower must maintain the policies of insurance obtained pursuant to clauses 12.2 during the period of the Agreement and must on demand produce to the Commonwealth satisfactory evidence of such insurance.
The Borrower shall allow officers, employees and agents of the Commonwealth at all reasonable times, to enter the premises where the Equipment is stored to either:
affix plates or marks to the Equipment;
examine or test any of the Equipment;
observe the manner in which the Equipment is being used; or
view the records kept of the use of the Equipment.
The Borrower shall assemble and make available the Equipment and records for inspection by the Commonwealth, if so required by the Commonwealth.
Upon the expiration or earlier termination of this Agreement, the right to possession of the Equipment shall revert immediately to the Commonwealth.
Upon the expiration or earlier termination of this Agreement, the Borrower shall deliver the Equipment to the Commonwealth in accordance with clause 4.4.
If the Borrower fails to deliver the Equipment, the Commonwealth may repossess the Equipment, and shall for that purpose, be entitled to enter any premises where the Equipment may be and transport it to premises owned by the Commonwealth.
All costs of repossession shall be a debt due from the Borrower to the Commonwealth.
If the Borrower:
fails, within fourteen (14) days after receipt of written notice, to remedy any default in performance of the terms and conditions of this Agreement;
vacates premises where the Equipment remains;
assigns this Agreement or any part(s) thereof without written consent from the Commonwealth;
being a corporation, goes into liquidation or a receiver and manager or mortgagee's or chargee's agent is appointed; or
being an individual, becomes bankrupt or enters into a scheme of arrangement with creditors;
the Commonwealth may, by written notice, terminate the Agreement forthwith, in whole or in part, and without prejudice to any right of action or remedy which may have accrued in favour of the Commonwealth, recover from the Borrower any loss or damages that may have been incurred by the Commonwealth.
A party may give the other party notice in writing of a dispute or difference in relation to this Agreement.
Once a notice under sub-clause 16.1 is given and received, the parties agree to use their best endeavours to settle the dispute or difference promptly and fairly by negotiation (which may, if both parties are so agreeable, include exploring the possibility of using mediation, independent expert appraisal or any other alternative dispute resolution procedure).
Notwithstanding the existence of a dispute or difference, each party shall continue to perform its obligations under this Agreement.
The Commonwealth may at any time terminate the Agreement in whole or part upon giving written notice to the Borrower.
This Agreement shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the law for the time being in force in the Australian Capital Territory, Australia, and the parties hereby submit to the jurisdiction of the courts of that Territory.
This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement between the parties and supersedes all communications, negotiations, arrangements and agreements, either written or oral, between the parties with respect to the subject matter of this Agreement.
No agreement or understanding varying or extending this Agreement will be legally binding upon either party unless in writing and signed by both parties.
The Borrower shall not, without the prior written consent of the Commonwealth, assign this Agreement or any of its rights hereunder to any other person.
Failure by the Commonwealth at any time to enforce any of the provisions of this Agreement shall not be construed as a waiver by the Commonwealth of any such provision or in any way affect the validity of the Agreement or any part thereof.
The Borrower shall comply with the provisions of any relevant Act and the requirements of any Commonwealth, State, Territory or local authority in using the Equipment.
Unless contrary intention appears, any notice or communication under this Deed shall be effective if it is in writing, signed and delivered to the relevant party as detailed below:
Any notice, request or other communications to be given or served pursuant to this Agreement shall be in writing and addressed as notified by the parties.
Any such notice, request or other communication shall be delivered by hand or sent by pre-paid post, or facsimile to the address of the party to which it is sent.
Any notice, request or other communication shall be deemed to be received:
if delivered personally, on the date of delivery;
if sent by pre-paid post, on the day that the acknowledgment or delivery is completed by the recipient; or
if given by facsimile transmission, upon receipt of a transmission report by the machine from which the facsimile was sent indicating that the facsimile has been sent correctly and completely.

This Agreement shall be governed and construed in accordance with the laws of New South Wales.
In relation to matters covered by a relevant Collective Agreement the applicable law is the Workplace Relations Act 1996 (Cth).
Salary and Benefits
the Staff Member's entitlement to receive a Superannuation Benefit rather than cash  Salary will begin from the date of  this  Agreement;
from the date of this Agreement the Staff Member's entitlement to a cash Salary will cease;
the Staff Member's entitlement to the Superannuation Benefit shall accrue daily (including during periods of paid leave) being payable to the nominated superannuation fund at the end of  the Employment Contract.
any payments made by the University on behalf of the Staff Member to a superannuation fund  pursuant to this Agreement  will not lead to transfer of liability or responsibility from the Staff Member to the University in relation to any arrangement, contract or understanding that is, will be or may have been in place between the Staff Member and the superannuation fund.
Any legislative changes that impact upon the cost or efficacy of providing Superannuation Benefits under this Agreement may lead to a renegotiation of it.
The Staff Member acknowledges that it is his or her responsibility to seek independent financial advice on the appropriateness of the terms of this Agreement to his or her specific circumstances before accepting it and any other subsequent offer to renegotiate their Salary and Superannuation Benefit.
If there is a change to the circumstances of the Staff Member it is the responsibility of the Staff Member to seek further independent legal or financial advice if warranted.
Subject to any variation of this Agreement the Staff Member remains liable to fulfil their obligations under it.
The Staff Member hereby agrees to indemnify and to keep indemnified the University, its employees and agents against any loss, liability or expense arising from or in connection to the University making payments of the Superannuation Benefit in accordance with this Agreement.
The Staff Member agrees to comply with and be bound by the University's salary packaging policies as amended or substituted from time to time.
The University will provide a copy of the relevant salary packaging polices at the request of the Staff Member.
During the term of this Agreement the parties will keep each other informed of matters affecting this Agreement.
This Agreement shall commence on the date of this Agreement and shall continue until:
the Agreement is terminated by the staff member; or,
this Agreement is terminated by the University in the event of the Staff Member breaching any of the terms of this Agreement or Government or superannuation requirements or regulations prohibit the continuation of the arrangement.
; or
the Staff Member ceases to be employed with the University for a period of 9 months or greater, or
the staff member commences employment at UTS on a continuing or fixed-term basis..

On termination of this Agreement:
the obligation of the University to provide or arrange the Superannuation Benefit shall immediately cease without claim by the Staff Member for any compensation whatsoever;
any overpayment  resulting from the Superannuation Benefit  or of  any Salary being provided in advance is to be repaid by the Staff Member  as a debt due to the University.
Such sums shall become due and payable upon demand whether or not they are due to be paid.
nothing in this Agreement will operate to restrict or prevent the University from recovering moneys owing to it in accordance with its legal rights in the case where the Staff Member owes money to the University.
nothing in this Agreement will operate to restrict or prevent the Staff Member from recovering moneys owed to him or her in accordance with his or her legal rights should any moneys be owed to the Staff Member by the University.
The University will not provide information concerning the affairs of the Staff Member to a third person without the written consent of the Staff Member (unless obliged under law to do so) other than:
to the Australian Taxation Office;
to authorised University staff requiring access in the performance of their duties; or
to authorised personnel of an organisation requiring access in the performance of their duties in providing the administrative service for  the Superannuation Benefit.
In consideration for the University making payment of the Superannuation Benefit as part of a salary packaging arrangement as provided for in this Agreement  the Staff Member agrees to pay all administrative costs, expenses and charges incidental to the provision of the Superannuation Benefit as determined from time to time by the University.
Except as provided elsewhere in this Agreement, its terms will not be changed unless the terms of any collateral agreements that are incidental to the provision of Salary and Benefits are concurrently changed.
Any variation must be in writing and signed by both Parties.
SIGNED AS AN AGREEMENT by


...................................................	..........................................	..... / ..... / .....
Name of Staff Member in block letters	Signature of Staff Member	Date


ADMINISTRATION
Please indicate the superannuation fund of your choice and supply the relevant details if required.
* UniSuper 
	This is the University default fund in the event that you do not nominate a fund of your choice.
OR

* Private superannuation account 
    Name of the fund:					Account number :
    The name of your contact at the fund:
    Mailing address:   
* Cheque payments				 
or				
* EFT payments  
Account name:
Name of Banking Institution:
BSB number:

and either:
* a copy of the signed notification from APRA stating that the fund is a complying superannuation fund, or
* a copy of the ATO advice stating that the fund is a regulated superannuation fund, or
* if a commercial fund, the funds compliance letter.
NOTE:  The non-contributory superannuation benefit paid by the University on employees' behalf in accordance with current superannuation legislation will be paid to UniSuper in accordance with the Trust Deed between the University and UniSuper.
A $1 salary packaging fee is applicable on each payment made to the nominated superannuation fund (regardless of whether the fund is UniSuper or a private superannuation account).
The level of this fee is subject to Clause 12 of this Agreement.
Please send completed agreement and attachment(s) to
Payroll, Financial Services Unit, 
Building 10, Level 6 or 
PO Box 123, Broadway 2007

Salary Packaging Agreement - Casual Staff - February 2008
				4 of 4
	4




Salary Packaging Agreement - Casual Academic Staff - February 2008
					1 of 4





The Licensor grants a non-exclusive, non-transferable licence to the Licensee, to use the data for the purposes set out in the Agreement.
The licence granted pursuant to this Agreement shall commence upon the date specified in Item 5 of Schedule A and expire on the date specified in Item 6 of Schedule A, unless terminated sooner by the parties.
The Licensee shall pay the fee or fees specified in Item 7 of Schedule A in accordance with the payment structure outlined in Item 8 of Schedule A.
The parties acknowledge that the consideration under this Contract is inclusive of GST, where GST is calculated using the GST Rate at the time of forming this Contract.
The Supplier shall provide the Recipient with a tax invoice and/or adjustment notes in relation to the Supply prior to an amount being paid by the Recipient under this Contract and shall do all things reasonably necessary to assist the Recipient to enable it to claim and obtain any Input Tax Credit available to it in respect of a Supply.
The Licensor permits the Licensee to use the data solely for the purposes and in the manner described in Item 4 of Schedule A.
The Licensee shall not and shall ensure that its employees, agents and any sub-licensee or third party to this Agreement, shall not use the data in any way other than for the purpose and in the manner set out in Item 4 of Schedule A, without the prior written consent from the Licensor.
Unless otherwise agreed by the parties, the Licensee shall not distribute the product to any person without the prior written consent of the Licensor.
Unless otherwise agreed by the parties, the Licensee shall not use the data to produce materials for sale to a third party, or for general sale, without the prior written consent of the Licensor.
This Agreement does not confer on the Licensee, any rights of ownership in the data.
All intellectual property rights in the data, including but not limited to copyright, shall remain vested in the Licensor and are unaffected by this Agreement.
The Licensee shall treat the data as private and confidential and shall take all reasonable steps to keep the data private and confidential.
To this end the Licensee shall:
maintain a system for the safe custody of the data and copies of the data;
copy the data for its own purposes only;
disclose the data only to those of its employees whose duties require a knowledge of, or access to, the data and take all reasonable steps to minimise the risk of disclosure of the data by those employees;
on becoming aware that a breach of this Agreement has occurred immediately advise the Licensor of the nature of the breach and what action has been taken or will be taken to protect the interests of the Licensor.
Except as provided in this Agreement or as required by law, the Licensee shall not, without the prior written consent of the Licensor, disclose the data to a third party and, if that consent is given, the Licensee shall make known to the third party to whom the data is disclosed that the Licensor is the owner of the data and the copyright therein and shall require the third party to give to the Licensee a written undertaking, in a form satisfactory to the Licensor, that it shall observe and perform with respect to the data terms and conditions similar to those contained in this Agreement.
The Licensee acknowledges the confidential nature of the terms and conditions of this Agreement and agrees to treat the terms and conditions of this Agreement as confidential.
The Licensor gives no warranty as to the condition, quality or fitness of the data for the Licensee's requirements.
The Licensee is responsible for ensuring that the data supplied meets its individual needs.
The Licensor shall not be liable for any loss, damage or injury suffered by the Licensee or any third party that may arise from the use of the data.
The Licensee shall indemnify and keep indemnified the Licensor against any loss, costs, expenses, damages and liability of any kind, which the Licensor may sustain or incur arising directly or indirectly from any claim relating to the data made or permitted to be made by the Licensee, or relating to any derivative data produced by or on behalf of the Licensee which incorporates the Data.
Either party may terminate this Agreement at any time by the giving of 30 days notice in writing to the other party.
If the Licensee is found to be in breach of the Agreement, the Licensor may terminate the Agreement immediately by notice in writing to the Licensee.
Upon termination or expiration of this Agreement the following will happen:
All rights granted by the Licensor to the Licensee will cease;
The Licensee shall return to the Licensor all copies of the data in its possession and shall delete or destroy all copies of the data held by the Licensee in electronic or magnetic form, unless otherwise agreed by the parties.
Notices under this Agreement may be delivered by prepaid postage or certified mail, by hand or by facsimile transmission.
Notices are deemed given:
five (5) days after deposit in the mail with postage prepaid or certified;
when delivered by hand;
if sent by facsimile transmission, upon completion as evidenced by a fax transmission record.
For the purposes of this clause the address for service of each party is that set out in Item 9 of Schedule A.
The provisions of this Agreement shall be subject to the Special Conditions, if any set out in Item 10 of Schedule A.
Any amendment or variation to this Agreement must be made in writing and signed by both parties.
The parties hereby agree that this Agreement will be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the Northern Territory of Australia.
Point datasets resulting from original supply are not to be displayed on any resulting products;
Original supplied point dataset are to be destroyed once data use stated in ITEM 4 is complete;
Datasets incorporated into a model as stated in ITEM 4 maybe retained within the model subject to Special Condition 1.
The data source, bibliographic reference and information statement/acknowledgements should be cited with the use of and/or on any product derived from this dataset;
The dataset as supplied is a date specific copy and is not subject to any updates/alterations/corrections or additions which may be applied to the original data source.
Personal or company information provided is essential to establish this Agreement and will be recorded in a Register of Licence Agreements.
This information will not be provided to third parties.
Any personal or company information may subsequently be accessed by you by contacting the Director of the Weed Management Branch on (08) 8999 4567 

The Scholarship Provider wishes to support the skills development of a QUT research student by funding a Scholarship for the student to undertake a Research Studies Program at QUT.
QUT will administer the Scholarship.
QUT and the Scholarship Provider wish to record the terms of their understanding in this Agreement.
This Agreement is subject to the Scholarship Student meeting QUT's Entry Requirements and receiving an offer of enrolment as a full time research student from QUT and the Scholarship Student staying enrolled as a full time research student.
Subject to Clause 2.1 this Agreement shall come into effect on the day it is signed by both Parties.
The Agreement shall continue to the end of the Research Studies Program undertaken by the Scholarship Student or until the Scholarship Student ceases to be enrolled at QUT whichever is the earlier.
QUT will advertise the Scholarship and select the Scholarship Student in accordance with QUT policies and using a selection process that is based on merit or some other rational criteria as necessary.
QUT will provide to the Scholarship Provider through the Principal Supervisor 6 monthly technical progress reports.
QUT will supervise the Scholarship Student.
The Principal Supervisor will be responsible for the guidance and education of the Scholarship Student while enrolled in the Research Studies Program and conducting the Research Studies Project.
The Scholarship Provider will provide the Scholarship Student and the Principal Supervisor with access to the facilities described in Schedule 4.
The Scholarship Provider may assist QUT with the supervision of the Scholarship Student by providing a supervisor who provides assistance and guidance to the Scholarship Student as required for the Research Studies Project.
The Scholarship Provider will pay the agreed amount to QUT in accordance with the schedule of payments in Schedule 3 or such other schedule of payments as may be agreed in writing by the Parties.
QUT will invoice the Scholarship Provider in accordance with the schedule of payments in Schedule 3 or such other schedule of payments as may be agreed in writing by the Parties.
The Scholarship Provider acknowledges that where the Scholarship Student fails to achieve an adequate level of performance as determined by the Principal Supervisor or where the Scholarship Student does not remain enrolled full-time in the Research Studies Program, QUT will cease payments to the Scholarship Student but will not require the Scholarship Student to repay any part of the Scholarship Amount and that QUT is not responsible for repaying to the Scholarship Provider any portion of the Scholarship Amount already paid to the Scholarship Student.
However, QUT will repay to the Scholarship Provider any portion of the Scholarship Amount not already paid to the Scholarship Student.
The Scholarship Provider acknowledges that QUT is not obliged to find a replacement for the Scholarship Student or to finalise the Research Studies Project if the Scholarship Student fails to achieve adequate performance or if the Scholarship Student does not remain enrolled full-time in the Research Studies Program.
However, QUT will use its best endeavours to find such a replacement Scholarship Student.
The Scholarship provider acknowledges that the Scholarship Student will be required to comply with QUT's regulations covering the Research Studies Program in which the Scholarship Student is enrolled, including progression, reporting and examination.
Where QUT becomes liable in accordance with the GST Law to pay an amount in respect of the Goods and Services Tax, then the Scholarship Amount may be increased by the amount of QUT's liability to pay GST except where the Scholarship Amount already includes an amount in respect of the QUT's liability to pay GST.
QUT will issue a Tax Invoice to the Scholarship Provider each time the Scholarship Provider makes a taxable Supply under this Agreement.
Ownership of the Intellectual Property in Existing Material which either Party shall contribute to the Research Studies Project shall remain unaffected by this Agreement.
The Parties hereby grant each other a royalty free, non-exclusive licence to use each others Existing Material provided for the Research Studies Project for the purpose of the Research Studies Project and subject to clauses 6.4 and 6.7 a royalty free, non-exclusive perpetual licence to use the other Party's Existing Material to the extent that such Existing Material is incorporated into the New Material.
This Agreement does not vary the ownership and shall not be deemed to grant rights of use to any Intellectual Property which either Party shall develop independently of this Agreement.
Subject to the Scholarship Student signing the QUT Intellectual Property and Confidentiality Agreement, the Intellectual Property in the New Material shall vest in and be owned by QUT with the exception of the copyright in the Scholarship Student's Thesis.
The Scholarship Provider acknowledges that:
the Scholarship Student may require results of the Scholarship Student's participation in the Research Studies Project, in whole or in part, to be included and published as part of the Thesis;
copyright in the Thesis belongs to the Scholarship Student; and 
the right of the Scholarship Student to have the Thesis examined is not inhibited but QUT, upon the Scholarship Provider's request, will use reasonable efforts to ensure that any examiner signs a confidentiality agreement to protect Confidential Information of the Scholarship Provider contained in the Thesis.
Upon the reasonable request of the Scholarship Provider, QUT will ensure that the Thesis is kept confidential for a period no longer than 12 months from the completion of the Research Studies Project.
Subject to clauses 6.4 and 7 QUT grants the Scholarship Provider the right to use the  Intellectual Property in the New Material for:
its own internal teaching; 
its own internal research; and/or 
academic publication purposes.
For the avoidance of doubt, the licence granted under this clause 6.7 is not a licence to Commercialise the Intellectual Property in the New Material.
The Scholarship Provider shall do all things necessary, including but not limited to signing any documents, applications or declarations, in order to vest in QUT full and clear title to the Intellectual Property in the New Material and to assist QUT in obtaining registration as proprietor of any such Intellectual Property rights in Australia or elsewhere.
All costs of transferring, filing, renewing and protecting the Intellectual Property in the New Material shall be met by QUT.
Subject to the terms of this Agreement, any Confidential Information disclosed by a Party ("the Disclosing Party") to the other Party ("the Receiving Party") in relation to the Research Studies  Project shall be treated by the Receiving Party as secret and confidential and shall not be disclosed to any other person for 5 years from the completion of the Research Studies Project without the prior written consent of the disclosing Party which consent may be given on such terms and conditions as the Disclosing Party thinks fit.
Where a Party ("the Publishing Party") proposes a disclosure of the other Party's Confidential Information for publication or presentation, it shall submit such material to the other Party ("the Consenting Party") for review at least 30 days prior to submission for publication or presentation.
The Consenting Party shall respond within fourteen (14) days of receiving the request in accordance with one of the following options:
it shall provide its written consent to the publication or presentation; or		
it shall provide its consent to the publication or presentation subject to data being anonymised or its Confidential Information severed from the draft or such other amendment which in the opinion of the Scholarship provider is necessary; or 
it shall request a delay in disclosure of the publication or presentation so as not to prejudice Intellectual Property protection or commercialisation of Intellectual Property in the New Material.
In the event that the Publishing Party shall not have received a response from the Consenting Party within fourteen (14) days after submission it shall be entitled to assume consent has been granted to use the publication or presentation in the form of the draft submitted for review.
If a dispute arises between the Parties (the "Dispute"), the Parties agree to negotiate in good faith to resolve the Dispute and will refer resolution of the Dispute to their respective chief executive officers or their nominees.
If the Dispute has not been resolved by negotiation within 30 days then either of the Parties may refer the Dispute to mediation and will do so before initiating court proceedings to resolve the Dispute.
A Dispute which is referred to mediation will be referred to the Queensland Branch of the Institute of Arbitrators and Mediators Australia (IAMA) and will be conducted in accordance with the Mediation Rules of IAMA.
If the Dispute has not been resolved within sixty (60) days of referral to IAMA any Party is free to initiate court proceedings.
Nothing in this clause will prevent a Party from seeking interlocutory relief through courts of appropriate jurisdiction.
Each Party will bear its own costs of mediation undertaken under this clause 8.
However, the costs of the appointed mediator will be shared equally by the Parties to the mediation.
In the event that the Scholarship Provider elects to contract research and development for further studies arising out of this Research Studies Project, it agrees to inform QUT of its intention to do so, and QUT has the right to negotiate in good faith a research and development contract with the Scholarship Provider, and this is recognised as a first right of refusal over that contract.
The Parties may vary any of the terms of this Agreement but any variation will be effective only if evidenced in writing signed by the Parties.
This Agreement shall be governed by and is to be construed in accordance with the laws applicable in Queensland, Australia.
The Parties agree to submit to the courts having jurisdiction in Queensland to entertain any action in respect of, or arising out of this Agreement.
If any provision of this Agreement is prohibited, void, invalid or unenforceable, the provision shall be ineffective and severed from this Agreement to the extent it is prohibited, void, invalid or unenforceable.
A Party must not assign, sub-contract, or transfer, any of its rights or obligations arising from this Agreement in whole or in part to any person without prior written consent of the other Party.
If by reason of any fact, circumstance, matter or thing beyond the reasonable control of a party, that party is unable to perform in whole or in part any obligation under this Agreement that party is relieved of that obligation under this Agreement to the extent and for the period that it is so unable to perform and is not liable to the other party to this Agreement in respect of such inability.
QUT shall not be under any liability to the Scholarship Provider in respect of ANY loss or damage (including consequential loss or damage) however caused, that may be suffered or incurred or that may arise directly or indirectly out of the conduct of the Research Studies Project or the use of the New Material or any other product resulting from the Research Studies Project or the failure or omission on the part of QUT to comply with its obligations under this Agreement.
The Parties exclude hereby to the extent permitted by the law all express and implied warranties in relation to the performance of this Agreement and to the performance of the Research Studies Project, in particular any warranty that the Research Studies Project will achieve any particular result.
The Scholarship Provider acknowledges that it is aware that investment in the Research Studies Project carries with it the risk of loss and the risk that the research will not result in any marketable products or commercial outcomes.
Under no circumstances is QUT liable to the Scholarship Provider for any of the following even if informed of their possibility: 
loss of, or damage to data;
special, incidental, or indirect damages or any economic consequential damages; and/or 
lost profits, business, revenue, goodwill, or anticipated savings.
Any Notice:
May be given by an authorised officer of the relevant party; and
Must be in writing; and
Must be left at the address of the addressee, or sent by prepaid ordinary post (airmail if international) to the address of the addressee or facsimile to the facsimile number of the addressee which is specified below or if the addressee notified in writing another address or facsimile number then to that address or facsimile number.
Unless a later time is specified in it a Notice takes effect from the time it is actually received or taken to be received.
A Notice sent by post, or facsimile is taken to be received:
In the case of a letter, on the 3rd (14th, if international) day after posting;
In the case of a facsimile, on production of a transmission report by the machine from which the facsimile was sent which indicates that the facsimile was sent in its entirety to the facsimile number of the recipient notified for the purpose of this clause if produced before 5 pm on a business day otherwise on the next business day.
All stamp duty payable on this Agreement or any documents or instruments of transfer to be executed pursuant hereto shall be shared by the Parties.
The Parties shall pay their own legal costs and disbursements incurred in the preparation and execution of this Agreement
The Scholarship Provider will reimburse at cost any additional payment made by QUT for excise and other taxes, which are attributable to the Research Studies Project and imposed upon QUT (directly or indirectly) by national or local authorities.
Any amounts due under this sub-clause will be invoiced with the instalments referred to in Schedule 3.
Nothing contained in this Agreement will be construed as implying that the relationship between the Scholarship Provider and QUT and/or the Scholarship Student is that of partners, joint venturers, or employer/employee.
No Party may act or has any authority to act as an agent of or in any way bind or commit the other Party to any obligation.
This Agreement together with its Schedules constitutes the entire agreement between the Parties with respect to the subject matter thereof and contains all of the representations, undertakings, warranties, covenants and agreements of the Parties.
The Coach is contracted in the position specified in item 3 of the schedule.
The Coach is contracted to provide the services to the Club as set out in item 4 of the schedule ("the Services").
The Club may, after consultation with the Coach vary the responsibilities and duties to suit its needs but not so as to change substantially the nature of them.
The Coach will be required to provide the Services at times necessary to fulfil the requirements of item 4 of the schedule.
The nature of the position is such that the hours of contracted work may vary.
The Coach shall report to the person(s) specified in item 5 of the schedule.
The Club will pay the Coach the amount specified in item 6 of the schedule for the performance of the Services ("the Fee").
The Fee will be paid on the date specified in item 6 of the schedule by way of cheque or by such means as mutually agreed by the Coach and the Club.
Other Benefits: The Club will also provide the Coach with the benefits (if any) specified in item 7 of the schedule.
Travel [delete if inappropriate]: Where the Coach is required by the Club to travel with a squad and/or team to an event, training session, or other related activity the following applies:
in relation to travel within the Melbourne metropolitan area, travel is deemed to be included within the Fee;
in relation to travel within country Victoria approved by the Club, if the Coach utilises his vehicle, the Coach will be required to submit to the Club a tax invoice detailing the total kilometres travelled, together with a copy of any receipt/tax invoice for petrol expenses and the Club will reimburse reasonable travel expenses incurred;
in other cases, all travel expenses must be approved by the Club prior to travel.
Exceptions will be made to this arrangement only by mutual agreement.
Each amount or benefit, of whatever description, including without limitation the Fee payable under clause 3.1, specified as payable by the Club to the Coach under this agreement is expressed net of GST.
In addition to the amount payable, the Club will pay to the Coach on demand the GST payable by the Coach in respect of that amount, subject to the production of a tax invoice.
It is agreed that the Coach enters into this agreement as an independent contractor to the Club.
The parties agree that nothing in this agreement creates a relationship between them of employer/employee, principal/agent, a joint venture or a partnership.
The Coach shall not by virtue of this agreement be, or for any purpose be deemed to be, an employee or agent of the Club unless so deemed for the purposes of the Income Tax Assessment Act , the Superannuation Guarantee Charge Legislation, Workcover legislation or the Payroll Tax Assessment Act.
The Coach will be responsible for:
the payment of the Coach's taxation in respect of any amount the Coach receives under this agreement;
the payment of any fines for failure to comply with any statute or regulation;
the payment of any insurances the Coach considers appropriate related to the provision of the Services, such as property, professional indemnity, personal accident, medical insurance or worker's compensation insurance.
[this will require amendment if the Club has agreed to pay the insurance costs of the Coach]  
The Coach may not incur expenses on behalf of the Club nor pledge the credit of the Club, except to the extent that the Coach has written authorisation from the Club to apply expenditure to a specified level for specified activities.
In addition to providing the Services, the Coach will:
conduct himself with propriety and decorum and refrain from any conduct which may prejudice or lessen the value of his services as a coach for the Club;
abide by the constitution, rules and by-laws of the Club and the Association;
exhibit high standards of work performance and conduct including high standards of personal behaviour;
maintain all formal or other requirements appropriate to his position as an advanced coach and in particular to effect and maintain membership of, or accreditation with the appropriate professional association;
encourage public recognition and support for the Club;
in respect of any Club player, not advocate, prescribe, recommend, support, administer or participate in the use of drugs, stimulants, or doping practices prohibited by the Club, Cricket Victoria or Cricket Australia;
comply with all lawful and reasonable orders and directions given by the Club committee of management; and
not engage in any other employment or enter into any contract involving the provision of cricket coaching services without the prior written consent of the Club.
The Coach acknowledges that he has obligations under Occupational Health & Safety Act 1985 (Vic), including the obligation to ensure so far as is practicable that persons are not exposed to risks to their health or safety arising from the performance of the Services.
The Coach agrees that he will not at any time, whether during the Term of this agreement or after its termination, disclose to any person any confidential information obtained during or incidental to the performance of the Services under this agreement.
In addition, the Coach must keep the contents of this agreement confidential to himself during the Term of this agreement and after its termination, except for the purposes of obtaining legal and financial advice or as otherwise required by law.
Unless otherwise agreed in writing, all confidential records, documents and other papers together with any copies or extracts thereof, made or acquired by the Coach in or incidental to the performance of the Services under this agreement shall be the property of the Club and must be returned to Club upon termination of this agreement.
The Coach agrees that any program, strategy or system developed in relation to the Services, including but not limited to documents containing training regimes and planned routines, shall be the sole and exclusive property of the Club.
The Club accepts that the Coach is or may have other contracts and arrangements.
However the Coach must ensure that he is able to perform the Services under this agreement, and for that reason the Coach agrees that the Club may require him to disclose to it any other arrangements or agreements he has entered in or intends to enter in.
For the purposes of sponsorship, promotional, and public relations activities of the Club and/or any sponsor of the Club, the Coach shall attend at and participate in such events as may reasonably be directed by the Club.
The Club shall give the Coach reasonable notice of the events which the Coach must attend.
The Coach shall at all times when attending training, competition and official functions in his capacity as Coach wear only such clothing as approved and directed by the Club.
The Coach must not display any badge, mark, logo or trading name on any clothing worn during the Term in accordance with this agreement, other than the badges, marks, logos and trading names of Club and/or any sponsors of the Club without the express written consent of the Club.
The Coach authorises the use by the Club of the Coach's name, fame, image, signature, voice, visual portrayal and reputation in the context of the sport for the purposes of advertising, promoting and marketing the Club in such reasonable manner as the Club sees fit and the Club shall further be entitled to sub-licence the rights granted in this clause to any and all sponsors of the Club for use by them in a reasonable manner.
This clause survives expiry of this agreement.
Without in any way limiting clause 10.3, the Club may for the purposes of sponsorship, advertising, promotion and marketing:
use any portrait photographs of the team which includes the Coach and, consistent with the intent of this clause, the Coach shall participate in such portrait photographs;
use any photographs, video, film or other media containing images of the Coach engaged in training or in competition.
Either party may terminate this agreement by giving the other party not less than thirty (30) days notice in writing.
Unless otherwise agreed, the Coach shall be required to continue performing the Services during the notice period.
In addition the Club may terminate this agreement without notice if the Coach:
is substantially failing to comply with the terms of this agreement and has failed to remedy such breach after at least one weeks written notice by the Club to do so; or
is substantially failing to comply with the terms of this agreement and such breach is not capable in the Club's opinion to be remedied; or 
has, in the opinion of the Club, brought it or any individuals employed by or associated with it into disrepute; or
has become bankrupt;
has been convicted of an indictable offence.
Upon termination of this agreement, the Coach shall return to the Club all property belonging to the Club including, without limitation, documents, equipment and other materials in relation to the Services.
The Coach agrees that upon this agreement terminating, the Club may deduct from any monies payable to the Coach, any monies outstanding to the Club by the Coach, or the value of any property held by the Coach (as reasonably determined by the Club) which is not returned.
The Club and Association have and will continue to develop a number of policies, regulations and procedures relating to a range of matters applicable to the Coach and his employment.
All policies, regulations (in so far as they are applicable) and procedures of the Club and the Association are deemed to be part of this agreement.
The Club or the Association may change these policies and procedures to meet with the operational needs of the business.
Copies of such policies, regulations and procedures are available for inspection by the Coach upon request to the Secretary of the Club.
If a dispute arises out of or in relation to this agreement, the parties will confer in good faith with a view to resolving the matter in accordance with the following procedure:
should any matter occur which gives cause for concern to the Coach he will raise such matter with the Chair of the Club Committee of Management;
should any matter occur which gives cause for concern to the Club Committee of Management, its delegate(s) will raise such matter with the Coach;
if the matter is not settled, it must be discussed between the Coach and a delegate of the Club Committee of Management in the presence of their respectively nominated mediator;
if the matter is still not settled, the formal dispute resolution as documented within the Club Statement of Purposes and Rules will be followed.
The parties agree to attempt to resolve any dispute in accordance with the procedure set out in clause 13.1, prior to taking any further action or commencing any proceedings in a Court of law.
This agreement shall be governed by and construed according to the laws of Victoria in Australia and the Coach and the Club agree to submit to the jurisdiction of the Courts of Victoria.
In addition to Club policies and procedures and the Schedule attached, this agreement records the Club's complete agreement with the Coach in relation to the provision of the Services.
It replaces all previous written or oral agreements or understandings.
If the Club agrees to vary any term of this agreement, it must be recorded in writing and signed by both parties before it is valid.
The Club contracts the Coach to perform the Services in this agreement, and the Coach may not assign or sub-contract the Services (in whole or in part) to any other person or organisation, except where it is expressly agreed in writing between the parties.
The Coach agrees to indemnify the Club, its directors, officers, employees and agents (for the purposes of this clause referred to as the Club) against loss, damage or expense incurred by the Club as a result of the performance of the Services under this agreement or breach of this agreement by the Coach.

Queensland University of Technology and the Employee have entered into an arrangement (the "Arrangement") under which Queensland University of Technology may from time to time, at its absolute discretion, offer to provide the Employee with Benefits which may result in the Employee's Salary being reduced.
In terms of the Arrangement, Queensland University of Technology may offer to provide the Employee with a motor vehicle.
In the event the Employee is provided with a vehicle, the Employee agrees to take the vehicle on the terms and conditions contained herein.
In this Agreement unless the context otherwise requires, the singular includes the plural and vice versa and in particular any word or expression defined in the singular shall have a corresponding meaning when used in the plural and vice versa.
Upon accepting an offer to be provided with a Vehicle under this Agreement, the Employee agrees and covenants with Queensland University of Technology that he or she will:

Ensure that the Vehicle remains registered in the name of the Vehicle Supplier or Queensland University of Technology if obtained through the QUT Executive Vehicle Scheme as specified in item 6 of the Schedule at all times and that the Employee will not allow the Vehicle to be used for any purpose for so long as it is not so registered;

Ensure that the Vehicle is regularly serviced in terms of the manufacturer's or, if prescribed, the Vehicle Supplier's requirements, and that repairs or any faulty parts are promptly replaced.
The Employee acknowledges that any replacement parts are to remain affixed to the Vehicle and are the property of the Vehicle Supplier;

Save for fair wear and tear not subject to driver abuse, keep the Vehicle in the same condition as at the Commencement Date and properly cleaned, serviced and maintained during the Term;

Not without the prior written consent of Queensland University of Technology, make any alteration or addition to the Vehicle other than such alterations and additions in the course of servicing and maintaining the Vehicle; and keep the Vehicle in a roadworthy condition.
The Employee agrees:

To indemnify and keep indemnified Queensland University of Technology against any claims (contingent or otherwise), suits, actions, losses, damages, judgements, costs, fines, penalties, interest or expenses incurred in relation to the Vehicle including without limitation:

Any breach of this Agreement;

The cessation of any agreement or arrangement with the Vehicle Supplier; any breach of relevant road traffic legislation, including without limitation, traffic infringement fines and penalties including parking, speeding and red light camera fines; and

Any fringe benefits tax liability arising from or associated with the Vehicle being provided to the Employee.
The Employee acknowledges that it is his or her sole responsibility to seek independent advice on the appropriateness of the Arrangement before accepting an offer to take a Vehicle.
The Employee acknowledges and agrees that neither Queensland University of Technology, its officers, employees, suppliers, contractors or agents can be held responsible should the taking of a Vehicle prove at any time to be inappropriate to the Employee's circumstances.
For motor vehicles on an operating lease, it is agreed that during the Term Queensland University of Technology has right of use of the vehicle and may provide the employee with private use of a vehicle.
Option B.
The Employee acknowledges that the Vehicle costs include, without limitation, all maintenance and running costs of the Vehicle (including registration fees, insurance premiums, repairs, restoration works, servicing and fuel) incurred during the Term.
The Employee agrees that he or she is responsible for all and any fringe benefits tax liability arising from or associated with the Vehicle, including any fringe benefits tax liability arising from the disposal of the Vehicle if applicable.
The Employee agrees to pay all administrative costs and charges incidental to the provision of the Vehicle.
The Employee acknowledges and accepts that the safe custody of the Vehicle is his or her responsibility.
The Employee agrees to provide Queensland University of Technology with all information required by Queensland University of Technology to satisfy the requirements of the motor vehicle insurer nominated by Queensland University of Technology and declares that all information so provided is true and correct.
The Employee agrees to follow the accident procedures and police reporting guidelines advised from time to time by Queensland University of Technology, and to advise Queensland University of Technology immediately of any damage to the Vehicle.
The Employee acknowledges that he or she has been provided with a copy of the insurance policy document except where the vehicle is provided through the QUT Executive Vehicle Scheme and that consistent with general insurance company practices, hereby acknowledges that the Vehicle's insurance cover does not cover the exclusions contained in the said Policy including, without limitation: 

Claims arising whilst driving the Vehicle under the influence of or when impaired by any drug or intoxicating liquor;

Claims arising from using the vehicle in an unroadworthy or dangerous condition; 

Or claims arising from any unlicensed person driving the vehicle with the Employee's consent.
Full particulars of the above and all other exclusions are set out in the policy 			document.
In the event of an insurance claim, the Employee agrees that he or she is liable for the nominated excess as determined by the insurer except for vehicles provided through the QUT Executive Vehicle Scheme where the employee's liability covers damage or theft when the vehicle is being used for non-business purposes.
The Agreement shall commence on the Commencement Date and shall continue until:

Terminated by the Employee giving Queensland University of Technology one month's notice in writing; or terminated by Queensland University of Technology should the Employee be guilty of any breach of these Terms and Conditions; or the Employee ceases employment with Queensland University of Technology.
Queensland University of Technology may terminate the Agreement with effect on and from the date the finance company receives written notice from Queensland University of Technology that the Employee has ceased to be employed, engaged or on unpaid leave by Queensland University of Technology for whatever reason.
In the event of unpaid leave, the employee will need to ensure that sufficient salary sacrifice funds are available to meet all costs associated with Queensland University of Technology supplied vehicle(s) during periods of unpaid leave, for whatever reason the leave arises.
Without prejudice, these costs will include lease, registration, insurance, maintenance and where necessary, storage, disposal and transport costs.
Where there are insufficient funds, Queensland University of Technology has the option to cease providing the benefit except for vehicles provided through the QUT Executive Vehicle Scheme.
With vehicles provided through the QUT Executive Vehicle Scheme, for periods of unpaid leave in excess of six weeks, retention of the motor vehicle by the staff member is at the discretion of the head of the organisational unit, depending on the business use requirements of the unit.
If the organisational unit requires sole use of the vehicle during leave in excess of six weeks then the organisational unit will pay all lease and maintenance costs for this period and the staff members salary sacrifice payments will temporarily cease.
Notwithstanding the above, Queensland University of Technology may terminate the Agreement at any time should changes in any legislation or the enactment of any new legislation impose on Queensland University of Technology financial or other obligations in relation to the Arrangement which are, in Queensland University of Technology's sole discretion, unacceptable to Queensland University of Technology.
Upon termination, the Employee will deliver the Vehicle back to Queensland University of Technology in the same condition (fair wear and tear excepted) as at the Commencement Date.
All notices and consents required or permitted to be given under this agreement must be in writing and given by personal service, prepaid postage, facsimile transmission or telex transmission at such address as either party may designate to the other by written notice.
Neither this agreement nor any rights or obligations hereunder may be assigned or otherwise transferred by either party without the prior written permission of the other.
This agreement is governed by the laws of the State/Territory set out in item 6 of the Schedule and the parties submit to the jurisdiction of that State/Territory.
This Lease may be modified only in writing signed by duly authorised persons for both parties.
If any provision of the agreement should be held to be invalid in any way or unenforceable, the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby, and this agreement shall be construed so as to most nearly give effect to the intent of the parties as it was originally executed.
The obligations of the Employee survive the termination of this agreement and shall ensure for the benefit of and enforceable by Queensland 

The Funding Recipient will conduct the Project.
DFAT has agreed to fund the Project on the terms and conditions set out in this agreement.
DFAT will provide the Funding Recipient with the Funding at the times and in the manner specified in Schedule 2, subject to:
DFAT continuing to have sufficient funding allocated to the Project in its own internal budget; 
there being no unremedied breach of this agreement by the Funding Recipient; and
DFAT being satisfied with the Funding Recipient's performance of the Project.
Without limiting DFAT's rights, DFAT may withhold or suspend any payment in whole or in part if DFAT considers that it may have grounds to terminate this agreement.
The Funding Recipient must obtain contributions from other sources in the amounts set out in Schedule 1 and shown as 'Other Contributions (money)' and 'Other Contributions (in-kind)' (if any).
The Funding Recipient agrees to pay or reimburse DFAT on demand for all taxes, duties (including stamp duty) and government charges imposed or levied in connection with this agreement (other than GST).
Unless otherwise indicated, all consideration for any supply under this agreement is exclusive of any GST imposed on the supply.
The Funds paid by DFAT are inclusive of GST.
The Funding Recipient must provide DFAT with a valid tax invoice prior to payment of the Funds.
The Funding Recipient must (and where appropriate, ensure that the Funding Recipient's personnel):
applicable law:  comply with all applicable law;
performance standards:  carry out the Project within the Project Period, in accordance with this agreement, with due care and skill, to a high professional standard and in a timely manner;
Project Account:  ensure that the Funds are held in the Project Account (details of which must be notified to DFAT within five (5) Business Days of the Commencement Date) at all times prior to expenditure of the Funds according to this agreement;
expenditure only for project:  only expend the Funding for the Project in accordance with the Budget.
For avoidance of doubt, the Funding shall not be used to purchase an asset; 
records:  keep full and accurate Records of the conduct of the Project, including progress against the Phases, the receipt and use of Funding and Other Contributions (if any) and the creation of Project Material.
These Records must be retained by the Funding Recipient for a period of no less than 7 years after the end of the Project Period;
financial and accounting records:  keep financial and accounting records relating to the Project so as to enable all income and expenditure related to the Project to be separately identified in the Funding Recipient's accounts.
This obligation continues until 7 years after termination or expiry of this agreement; 
reports: give DFAT the Reports and any other information (including access to the Funding Recipient's records (including Records) relating to the Project) or reports reasonably requested by DFAT;
meetings: attend meetings with DFAT to discuss the Project when required;
notify change in status:  immediately inform DFAT of any change in the Funding Recipient's status or circumstances that may affect the Funding Recipient's ability to undertake the Project or to comply with this agreement; and
repayment of funds:  if, at any time during the Term of this agreement or on expiry or termination of this agreement, there remains an amount of Funding that has not been expended in accordance with this agreement or not acquitted to DFAT's satisfaction, then this amount must be refunded by the Funding Recipient to DFAT within twenty (20) Business Days of a written notice from DFAT, or dealt with as directed in writing by DFAT.
Any amount owed to DFAT under this paragraph will be recoverable as a debt due to DFAT without further proof of the debt being necessary.
The Funding Recipient must (and where appropriate, ensure that the Funding Recipient's personnel): 
policies, procedures, directions: comply with DFAT's practices, policies, codes of conduct, procedures and reasonable directions, as notified by DFAT from time to time;
Auditor-General and Privacy Commissioner: do all things necessary to ensure that DFAT is able to comply with any lawful request of the Auditor-General and the Privacy Commissioner relating to this agreement, including allowing the Auditor-General and the Privacy Commissioner to inspect, copy or remove documents, and to access the Funding Recipient's premises;
insurance: take out and maintain throughout the Term the insurances specified in Schedule 2 and provide DFAT with evidence of the currency and amount of cover under those policies, promptly on request;
confidential information: not use or disclose (directly or indirectly) any of DFAT's confidential information except for the purposes of this agreement, with DFAT's consent or where required to do so by law; 
privacy: in respect of Personal Information held by the Funding Recipient in connection with this agreement:
comply with the public-sector Information Privacy Principles in the Privacy Act 1988 and any other applicable legislation regarding privacy; and
use that information only for the purposes of this agreement, and disclose that information only as permitted by DFAT; and
moral rights consent:  not enforce, and use reasonable endeavours to obtain from each author their agreement that they not enforce, any moral rights in the Project Material; and
no subcontracting:  not, without the prior approval of DFAT, subcontract the performance of any obligations under this agreement or the Project.
DFAT may revoke its approval of a subcontractor on reasonable grounds.
Subject to this clause 4, as between DFAT and the Funding Recipient (but without affecting the position between the Funding Recipient and a third party) intellectual property rights in Project Material vest in the Funding Recipient on their creation.
The Funding Recipient grants DFAT a permanent, irrevocable, transferable, free, world wide, non-exclusive licence (including a right to sub-license) to use, reproduce, adapt and exploit the intellectual property rights in Project Material for any purpose other than commercial exploitation.
The Funding Recipient acknowledges that:
no employment, agency etc:  the Funding Recipient is not an employee, agent, partner or joint venturer of DFAT; and
confidentiality:  subject to the Privacy Act 1988, DFAT is under no obligation to keep any of the Funding Recipient's information confidential, and may be required to provide information in relation to the Funding or this agreement, as required by the operation of any law, judicial or parliamentary body or governmental agency.
The Funding Recipient represents and warrants that:
its funding application:  all statements made in its application for Funding were, when made, and remain, correct, complete and not false or misleading in any way; and
no conflict: at the Commencement Date, no conflict of interest exists or is likely to arise in the delivery of the Project.
The Funding Recipient will immediately inform DFAT if it becomes aware that such a conflict exists or is likely to arise during the Term.
The Funding Recipient indemnifies DFAT (including DFAT's officers, employees and agents) against any loss or liability incurred by DFAT, including legal costs, arising from or in connection with any act or omission of the Funding Recipient or the Funding Recipient's personnel under or in connection with this agreement.
DFAT may terminate this agreement by giving written notice to the Funding Recipient if the Funding Recipient is in breach of this agreement or becomes Insolvent.
No compensation is payable by DFAT for termination under this clause.
In addition to its rights set out in clause 6.1, DFAT may, at any time and at DFAT's absolute discretion, terminate this agreement by written notice to the Funding Recipient.
The Funding Recipient must take reasonable steps to mitigate any loss resulting from termination under this clause.
DFAT is only liable for reasonable costs incurred by the Funding Recipient and directly attributable to the termination.
The Funding Recipient must not, without the prior written approval of DFAT, issue or participate in any media release or publicity in relation to the Project.
The Funding Recipient must, in any publicity in relation to the Project approved by DFAT under clause 7.1(a), acknowledge the financial and other support provided by DFAT, in the manner set out in Schedule 1 or otherwise approved by DFAT prior to its use.
DFAT reserves the right to publicise, undertake promotional activities relating to, and report on the awarding of Funding to the Funding Recipient and the Funding Recipient's carrying out of the Project.
This clause 7 continues to apply for a period of 7 years from the date of expiry or earlier termination of this agreement.
The Funding Recipient may transfer up to 10% only of the total Funds between the categories of expenditure, without DFAT's approval.
The Funding Recipient must report the transfer of all Funds between categories, whether made under the preceding subclause 1.2 or with the approval of DFAT, in its acquittal report that it provides to DFAT.
Subject to DFAT being satisfied that the Funding Recipient has achieved the relevant milestones and subject to the terms of the agreement, the Funding Recipient will receive the following funds on or about the dates specified in the table:

The Funding Recipient must complete and provide to DFAT a final report and acquittal form substantially in the format located at Annexure A to this Schedule 2


Subject to this Agreement, each party shall treat the Information disclosed to him as private and confidential, and shall take all reasonable steps to ensure that the information is made known only to any other person to whom the other party has agreed in writing that the Information may be disclosed and whose duties and functions require a knowledge of or access to the Information.
Each party shall, to the extent permitted by law, require          every person to whom he intends to disclose the information to  give a written undertaking to keep the Information confidential 
Each party shall not discuss, communicate, copy, transcribe or reproduce by any means whatsoever any of the Information that may be provided by the other party without obtaining the prior written consent of that other party.
Without the prior consent in writing of a party, the other party not use the information in whole or in part for any purpose other than in considering the Transactions.
Each party shall not use, or suffer to be used, the Information in a manner detrimental to the interests of the other party.
Either party covenants with the other party and agrees that he shall report immediately to the other party if he should learn of any use or disclosure of the information which is without the consent of that other party, or is unlawful or is in breach of this Agreement.
Either party shall return all materials to the other party whenever he is required by the requesting party to do so.
After the return of all materials the party, shall not make any further use of the Information.
Either party shall return all materials to the other party in any event when he has ceased participating in the Transactions.
Property in the Information shall not pass to the other party by virtue of the provisions of this Agreement.
The restrictions in this Agreement upon either party shall not apply in respect of -                               
knowledge of the Information that is available to the  general public at the time of its receipt by the   other party
knowledge of the Information which either party shall have lawfully obtained from any third party, involving no fault or omission on the part of that party; or
knowledge of the Information that at the date of the Agreement is known to that party
PROVIDED ALWAYS that for each party to be entitled to the benefit of any of the foregoing exclusions, the onus of clearly establishing that the conduct of that party (whether by act or omission) is within that exclusion shall be upon that party at all times.
Each party shall release and hold the other party and its directors harmless from: -
any claim as to the lack of completeness or accuracy    of the Information; and
all responsibility and liability for conclusions derived from the Information.
All notices required under this Agreement shall be given in writing and served on the relevant party at the address set out on the first page of this Agreement or any other address as may be advised in writing from time to time.
A notice sent by mail shall be sent by certified mail and shall be deemed to have been received:
sent from within Australia, then on the day following the expiry of 2 clear days from the date shown on the certified mail posting receipt card; and
if sent from outside Australia, then on the day following the expiry of 10 clear days from the date shown on the certified mail posting receipt card.
A notice delivered by e-mail shall be deemed to arrive on the day of delivery if delivered during a business day and if not delivered during a business day then shall be deemed to arrive the next following business day.
A notice sent by facsimile or e-mail shall be deemed to have been received when the sender's machine confirms that the transmission has been successful and where a facsimile or e-mail is sent it must be immediately followed by a hard copy by post or hand delivery, noting the date time that the facsimile or email was sent.
Any communication of a notice made by a solicitor of one party shall be deemed to have been made with the authority of that party.
The relationship between the Parties shall be limited to the performance of the objects provided for in this Agreement.
Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed as bringing into existence any partnership or agency between the Parties.
The failure, delay or omission by either party to exercise a power or right conferred on that party by this Agreement shall not operate as a waiver of that power or right.
Any single exercise of a power or right will not preclude another exercise of that power or right or the exercise of another power or right under this Agreement.
Any waiver of a provision of this Agreement or consent to a departure by a Party from a provision of this Agreement must be in writing and signed by the Party granting the waiver to the other Party.
This Agreement shall not be varied unless in writing and executed by the Parties.
If any provision in this Agreement is found to be unlawful, invalid, unenforceable or in conflict with any rule of law, statute, ordinance or regulation, the validity and enforceability of the remaining provisions of this Agreement shall remain in force as if that provision had not been included.
This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement between the Parties and supersedes all prior negotiations, representations, proposals, undertakings and agreements, whether written or oral, relating to the subject matter of this Agreement.
This Agreement shall be construed and take effect in accordance with the relevant law for the time being applicable in the State of New South Wales and the Parties hereby submit themselves to the jurisdiction of the relevant Courts of the State of New South Wales.





The Licensor shall give the Licensee the number of copies of the Work in CD-Rom format as is specified in Section E of the Schedule.
The Work may not be used by the Licensee except for the purposes of tertiary education.
The Licensee must not, or permit another person to, copy, sell, licence or mortgage the Work for any reason whatsoever.
Without limiting any other remedy available to the Licensor, a breach of this Clause 4 will entitle the Licensor to equitable relief against the Licensee, including injunctive relief.
The fee shall be paid in full by the Licensee to the Licensor on the execution of this Agreement and in such manner and currency as is specified in the Special Conditions.
Subject to Clause 6.1(b) but without limiting Clause 6.3, the Licensor makes no representation that the use of the Work will not infringe any third person's rights, including, without limitation, any third person's patent rights or copyright.
The Licensor warrants that as at the date of this Agreement it is not aware that the Licensee's use of the Work in accordance with this Agreement will infringe any third person's rights.
The Licensee acknowledges that the Work is supplied "as is" and that the Licensor has not made and that no person acting on behalf of the Licensor has made, any representation as to the Work's merchantability or suitability for any particular purpose or any representation that the Work is error free or that it is free from any "worm", "virus", "back door" or any computer software routine intended or designed to disable, damage, erase, disrupt or impair the normal operation of the Work or any other software or data on the Licensee's computer systems.
The Licensee shall not modify the Work or merge all or any part of the Work with other programs or reverse engineer the Work without the Licensor's consent.
The Licensee indemnifies and holds harmless the Licensor against any liability incurred if the said modifications infringe the intellectual property rights of a third person.
The Work as modified remains the property of the Licensor.
The Licence shall continue to apply to the Work as modified.
For the purpose of this agreement, the following are Terminating Events -
the breach or threatened breach by either party of any of its material obligations under this agreement, including any obligation of the Licensee to pay money to the Licensor; and
the appointment of any type of insolvency administrator in respect of the Licensee; or the entry or proposed entry by the Licensee into any scheme, composition or arrangement with any of its creditors.
The Licence may be terminated immediately on the happening of a Terminating Event at the option of the affected party.
Neither party shall be liable for the consequences of an occurrence of any event beyond its reasonable control.
Each party agrees to do all things and execute all deeds, instruments, transfers or other documents as may be necessary or desirable to give full effect to the provisions of this Agreement and the transactions contemplated by it.
Each party shall bear its own costs arising out of the negotiation, preparation and execution of this Agreement.
All stamp duty and other taxes that may be payable on or in connection with this Agreement or the Work shall be paid by the Licensee (other than tax payable to the Commonwealth of Australia by the Licensor on any net income the Licensor may receive under this Agreement).
This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts.
All counterparts together will be taken to constitute one instrument. 

This agreement will remain in force for the term specified in Schedule 1.
During the Term, the Art Centre will make a reasonable effort to provide and meet the costs of the following services as appropriate to promote the Artist and the Artwork:
a apply for grants and funding for the professional development of the artists associated with the Art Centre and provide the Artist with opportunities under those funding arrangements;

The Art Centre may provide Artworks to other art centres or galleries (Other Gallery) on a consignment basis provided that the commission retained by the Other Gallery does not exceed the rate specified in Schedule 1.
During the Term, the Artist must:
deal with the Art Centre in relation to all Art Dealings and any matter governed by this agreement on the basis specified in Schedule 1; 
keep the Art Centre informed as to the Artist's current contact and payment details including address, telephone numbers and email address; and 
allow the Art Centre to deduct the Art Centre's Commission for any Sale.
Where the relationship specified in Schedule 1 is exclusive, the Artist must:
inform the Art Centre as soon as possible after Artwork has been created and deliver the Artwork to the Art Centre; 
not enter into any similar agreement, understanding or arrangement with any other person or entity; 
not sell or offer to sell any of the Artwork to any other person or entity other than the Art Centre, either directly or indirectly, whether for money, gifts or in return for anything else; 
not accept any offer to sell any Artwork to any other person or entity other than Art Centre, either directly or indirectly, whether for money, gifts or in return for anything else; 
immediately stop, and not resume, any discussions that the Artist may have commenced with any other person or entity other than Art Centre concerning any matter governed by this agreement; and
promptly notify the Art Centre of any other person or entity who offers to acquire, directly or indirectly, any Artwork, either for themselves or on behalf of a third party.
Upon receipt of money from any Sale of Artwork, the Art Centre must retain the Art Centre's Commission and pay the Artist's Payment to the Artist by cheque or any other method notified to the Art Centre within the period specified in Schedule 1.
The Art Centre must pay interest on late Artist's Payments on the basis stated in Schedule 1.
The parties agree that all amounts payable under this agreement are exclusive of Goods and Services Tax (GST).
If a party is liable to pay GST in respect of any good or service supplied under this agreement, that party will invoice the other party for the GST amount payable for the good or service and will ensure that the invoice is a GST compliant invoice.
The party who receives the GST compliant invoice must pay the amount of GST invoiced at the same time as the amount payable under this agreement.
The Art Centre must maintain accurate books and records in relation to Sales of Artwork and any consignment arrangements in relation to Artwork.
Within 14 calendar days of the Artist's request, the Art Centre will make all books and records available to the Artist or the Artist's authorised representative during the normal business hours of the Art Centre.
If any discrepancy is established in favour of the Artist upon examination of the books and records, the Art Centre must pay the Artist the costs of the examination and the deficit amount within 14 calendar days.
The Artist owns all Intellectual Property in the Artworks.
The Art Centre will manage the Artist's Intellectual Property on behalf of the Artist as specified in Schedule 1.
To the extent allowed by law, at the time of selling Artwork, the Art Centre must use all reasonable efforts to obtain and record the contact details of the purchaser and to provide these details to the Artist upon request by the Artist.
If an Artwork embodies traditional ritual Indigenous knowledge, the Art Centre must display the notice set out in Schedule 1 in a reasonably prominent position with the Artwork.
Each party must act reasonably and in good faith in all dealings with the other party and must avoid any conflict of interest between its own interests and the interests of the other party.
Either party may terminate this agreement without the need to give any reasons by giving the other party 3 months written notice that the agreement is to be terminated.
If a party commits a breach of this agreement, the other party must notify the party in breach of the breach in writing.
The party in breach must remedy the breach within 28 calendar days of the notice (Notice Period).
If the breach is not remedied at the expiry of the Notice Period, the party who gave the notice may terminate this agreement immediately by written notice.
If an exhibition of any Artwork commences during the Notice Period, termination will take effect from the date of the close of the exhibition.
The agreement automatically ends:
a upon the death of the Artist;
if the Art Centre becomes insolvent, is declared bankrupt, has a liquidator appointed or goes into administration, voluntary or otherwise.
Upon the death of the Artist, all unsold Artwork held by the Art Centre must immediately be withdrawn from sale and stored securely pending consultation with the Artist's family as to the appropriate time when the Artworks may be offered for sale again.
Subject to clause 13.4, upon termination or expiry of this agreement:
the Art Centre may exhibit and sell the Artwork in its possession, including through any Other Gallery, and retain its Commission; 
all Artist's Payments and other moneys due to the Artist must be paid as soon as possible to the Artist, the Executor of the Artist's Estate, the Public Trustee or the Artist's beneficiaries as appropriate; and
all rights granted by the Artist to the Art Centre under this agreement otherwise immediately revert to the Artist.
If a dispute or disagreement arises between the parties in connection with this agreement (Dispute), neither party may start any litigation or arbitration in relation to the Dispute until it has complied with this clause.
If a party believes a Dispute has arisen, it must notify the other party in writing about the Dispute.
The parties should meet within 28 calendar days after receipt of the notice of dispute and hold good faith discussions to attempt to resolve the Dispute.
If the Dispute is not resolved within 21 calendar days after meeting to attempt to resolve the dispute, the parties agree to submit the dispute to mediation according to the Arts Law Centre Mediation guidelines current at that time (Guidelines).
These guidelines are part of this agreement.
If the parties are unable to resolve the Dispute within 21 calendar days of commencing mediation or such later time as may be agreed during the mediation, either party may refer the matter to arbitration or commence litigation.
The parties must continue to perform their respective obligations under this agreement despite the existence of a Dispute.
The parties acknowledge that the Art Centre becomes the agent of the Artist for the Term as a result of this agreement in respect of Artwork provided to the Art Centre under this agreement.
A notice required to be given under this agreement may be delivered by hand, or sent by pre-paid post or fax to the address of the party indicated at the top of this agreement.
Notices are taken to have been served when received, or within 7 business days of having been sent, whichever occurs first.
Neither party may assign, subcontract, novate or otherwise divest this agreement or any of the rights or obligations under this agreement without the other party's prior written consent.
This consent must not be unreasonably withheld.
Subject to clause 15.6, this agreement contains the entire agreement of the parties regarding its subject matter.
Any previous understanding, agreement, representation or warranty relating to that subject matter is replaced by this agreement and has no further effect.
Nothing in this agreement transfers or excludes any applicable cultural rights in favour of Australian Indigenous people that may be implemented under Australian law.
This agreement may only be modified by a written amendment signed by the parties.
Invalidity of any clause of this agreement will not affect the validity of any other clause except to the extent made necessary by the invalidity.
This agreement is governed by the law in force in the jurisdiction specified in Schedule 1.
The parties submit to the jurisdiction of the courts of that State and any court competent to hear appeals from those courts.
The Artist agrees that the Art Centre may register the Artist with a copyright collecting society such as Viscopy and/or Copyright Agency Limited.
Within 28 calendar days of receiving any royalties under such an arrangement, the Art Centre must pay those royalties to the Artist by cheque or any other method notified by the Artist.
During the Term, the Artist grants the Art Centre the non-exclusive right to photograph the Artist and the Artwork (Photos) or otherwise copy or reproduce or publish the Artwork or the Photos in any material form for promotional material or use in any promotional event to promote the Art Centre, the Artist or the Artwork including but not limited to any use in connection with the promotion of any exhibitions at which the Artwork is displayed or offered for Sale.
The Art Centre may sub-license the rights granted to it in paragraph 2.
The Art Centre acknowledges that the Art Centre has no other present or future interest in the Artist's Intellectual Property.
The Art Centre must display a copyright notice that includes the Artist's name, the copyright symbol and the year that the Artwork was created:
Accompanying all reproductions of Artworks; and
on or adjacent to each Artwork on display.
During the Term, the Art Centre must comply with the Artist's reasonable requests and directions regarding the use of the Artist's Intellectual Property.
The Art Centre must not infringe, or permit others to infringe, the Artist's Intellectual Property, and will use all reasonable efforts to prevent any other person infringing those rights.
Without limiting the Artist's moral rights under the Copyright Act 1968 (Cth), the Art Centre must not, and must use all reasonable efforts not to let any other person or organisation destroy, damage, or alter any Artwork.


This Agreement ("the Variation") is to be interpreted, unless the contrary intention appears, with reference to the definitions and general provisions specified in clauses 2 and 3 of the Tasmanian RFA.
The attached Schedule of Amendments sets out the amendments to the Tasmanian RFA.
This Variation will be Attachment 15 to the Tasmanian RFA.
The Variation may be executed in any number of counterparts, all of which taken together constitute one and the same instrument.
The Parties agree that:
A person who claims to have sustained loss or damage for which compensation is payable may lodge an initiating claim with the State.
On receiving a claim, the State must make a corresponding claim for compensation to the Commonwealth. "
This Agreement may be terminated with the consent of the Commonwealth and the State.

The Grantee will provide the following:
A tax invoice is necessary where the Grantee is registered for GST.
Where the Grantee is NOT registered for GST, this Part does not apply.
A tax invoice can be issued by the Grantee or DVA.
Depending on which invoice is to be issued for GST purposes, it shall include the following details: 


Tax invoices forwarded by the Grantee to DVA must be correctly addressed and shall include the:
words 'tax invoice' prominently stated;
date of issue;
name of the Grantee;
ABN of the Grantee;
full name of DVA;
address and ABN of DVA;
brief description of purpose of Grant; and
GST inclusive price.
OR


RCTIs forwarded by DVA to the Grantee must be correctly addressed and shall include the:
words 'recipient created tax invoice';
date of issue;
name of the Grantee;
ABN of the Grantee;
full name of DVA;
address and ABN of DVA;
brief description of purpose of Grant; and
GST inclusive price.
DVA agrees to issue a copy of the RCTI to the Grantee and must retain the original for a period of 5 years.
If there are any adjustments, DVA must issue an adjustment note to the Grantee.
All Grantee activities in relation to this Agreement shall be consistent with DVA's Service Charter and the Australian Public Service Values and APS Code of Conduct (see in particular the Public Service Act 1999, ss 10 and 13).
The Grantee must maintain full levels of insurance cover to properly protect its and DVA's interests for the Project.
The Grantee will also be expected to comply with all relevant insurance requirements, including conducting and improving relevant risk management practices and incident notification processes.
Specifically, the Grantee warrants that it has, and will maintain:

public risk/liability insurance for not less than $10,000,000 per claim covering liability owed to another person who suffers loss or damage by reason of the Grantee's activities under this Agreement;
professional indemnity type insurance for not less than $5,000,000 per claim covering acts or omissions of the Grantee in the exercise of its trade or profession that give rise to liability (eg, negligence); and
workers' compensation insurance as required by State/Territory law, sufficient for any place that its relevant Personnel are involved with this Agreement.
The Grantee agrees to provide copies of certificate/s of currency, including details of limits on cover to the Delegate upon request, including details of limits on cover.
The applicable law shall be the law of the State or Territory involved.
This Agreement begins on the Starting Date stated on the Signatures Page upon signature by the representatives for:
the Grantee, as described in Part B(a) [Grantee's legal identity];   and
DVA as described in Part C [How is DVA represented?]
and any other entity, in particular, the Repatriation Commission.
The Grantee agrees to:
use the Grant for the purpose of the Project and follow the timing stated in Part D [Project and Timing];
provide appropriate deliverables about the Project, including reports and evaluation stated in Part E [Deliverables];
meet standards and comply with any governmental requirements stated in Part J [Quality Standards]; and
to participate in a DVA evaluation, if required, after the completion of the Project.
DVA agrees to pay the Grant to the Grantee in the manner described in Part F [Payment of the Grant].
The Grantee agrees to place the Grant into a suitable account at a financial institution.
The Delegate may require the account referred to in clause 3.1 to be used solely for the Project.
DVA agrees to provide assistance described in Part H [Assistance].
Where the Grantee has unspent moneys belonging to the Grant, recovery of the moneys may be made.
The Grantee agrees to keep a complete record of expenditure of the Grant.
The Grantee agrees to include the relevant statements relating to the expenditure of the Grant in its Annual Report.
After the completion of the Project, the Grantee agrees to send to the Delegate:
final financial statements relating to the expenditure of the Grant;
an independently qualified auditor's certificate relating to the expenditure of the Grant and whether the financial statements are true and fair; and 
a declaration signed by the Grantee to the effect that all terms of this Agreement have been complied with and the Project has been completed.
The Grantee agrees to pay the cost of the audit.
Where a goods and services tax (the GST) is collected from the Grantee for the Grant, then the Grantee agrees to do all things necessary to ensure that the DVA is entitled to a full input tax credit.
The Grantee agrees to issue a tax invoice to DVA within 28 days of the request of DVA in relation to the Grant unless it has been agreed between the parties by a Deed of Agreement that the DVA shall issue a Recipient Created Tax Invoice (RCTI).
A tax invoice must include the information as set out in Part G [Invoices for GST Purposes].
Where a RCTI is to be issued by DVA, each party must acknowledge to the other party that it is registered for GST purposes at the Starting Date of the Agreement.
the Grantee agrees to notify DVA if it ceases to be registered; and
DVA agrees to notify the Grantee if it ceases to be registered or if it ceases to satisfy the requirements of the relevant RCTI tax ruling.
A RCTI shall include the information as set out in Part G [Invoices for GST Purposes]
In the event that a RCTI is issued by DVA, on or after a date, where either party has failed to comply with any of the requirements of the relevant determination of the Commissioner for Taxation, that RCTI will not be treated as being a tax invoice.
No tax invoice or RCTI is required where the Grantee is not registered for GST.
The Grantee agrees to:
nominate an individual authorised to receive notices and represent it; and
maintain good record keeping practices to assist with the contract management and accountability requirements generally.
Notices made for written communication will be:
signed by the Delegate and sent to the Grantee as stated in Part B(b) [Who represents  the Grantee?]
(or as otherwise notified by the Grantee); or
sent to the Delegate as stated in Part C(b) [Who represents DVA?
], or as otherwise notified in writing by the Delegate.
The Grantee agrees to:
ensure that Personnel stated in Part B (c) [Specified Personnel] are appropriately qualified and conduct the relevant Project in relation to the Grant under this Agreement; 
notify DVA promptly if Specified Personnel cannot, for any reason, meet their obligations; and
notify DVA promptly of any  proposed or actual change in the Specified Personnel.
The Grantee agrees to act in the best interests of DVA and do all things necessary to protect and preserve DVA's good name regarding any people the DVA deals with and the public generally.
The Grantee and its Personnel agree to provide prompt and reasonable access for the Delegate or Personnel (including "Accountability Personnel" as defined in clause 9.4), to any:
premises where the Project under the Grant are being undertaken or delivered, including for inspecting performance or outcomes; and
Material that relates to this Agreement, including as stated in Part L (Accountability and Risk Management).
If "Accountability Personnel" approach the Grantee directly, then the Grantee agrees to immediately seek directions from the Delegate about appropriate steps to take.
For example, the Commonwealth may need to raise issues such as privacy, confidentiality, security, immunity from disclosure or the need for appropriate warnings.
Before resorting to external dispute resolution processes, the parties agree to attempt dispute settlement by negotiation, including with relevant senior Personnel.
If the parties do not resolve a dispute within 10 working days, or a period specified in Part K [Communications and Dispute Resolution], then the parties may:
preferably, adopt an alternative dispute resolution (ADR) process as specified in Part K [Communications and Dispute Resolution] or otherwise agreed in writing; or
if critical, start court  proceedings.
DVA Material ownership will remain vested at all times in DVA.
The ownership of the Project Material shall vest in the Grantee.
The Grantee agrees to provide DVA access to the Project Material as set out in Part M [Managing Assets and Project Material].
The Grantee agrees to:
ensure that DVA Material or Project Material is used, copied or disclosed to any other person only as authorised under this Agreement;
use DVA Material and Project Material according to any conditions notified by DVA; and
promptly deliver to the Delegate any DVA Material in its possession or control on the relevant End Date, or when any relevant part of the Project is completed or no longer required.
This clause 11 may be supplemented by procedures agreed, including specifically to manage assets in Part M [Managing Assets and Project Material].
Ownership of Intellectual Property in the Project Material vests in the Grantee.
The Grantee agrees to provide to DVA a licence regarding the Project  Material that is:
an "Existing Material Licence" defined in clause 12.3; and
for any relevant Intellectual Property right inherent in the Project Material.
The "Existing Material Licence" provided in clause 12.2 is permanent, non-exclusive, irrevocable, royalty-free and worldwide, including a right of sub-licence.
This clause 12 may be supplemented by information agreed to in Part N [Intellectual Property Ownership and Rights].
The Grantee agrees (with words in inverted commas in this clause adopting definitions from the Privacy Act 1988) to act as if it were a "record-keeper" regarding "personal information" and to comply with:
the "Information Privacy Principles" (regulating collection, solicitation, security, use and disclosure of personal information);
policies of DVA or the "Privacy Commissioner" relating to managing "personal information", including cooperating with reasonable requests from the "Privacy Commissioner";
the Delegate's directions about managing "personal information", in particular involving "Privacy Commissioner" recommendations about this Agreement;
DVA's prohibition against trans-border flows of "personal information" without prior approval by DVA; and
section 95C, and acknowledge section 95B, of the Privacy Act 1988.
The Grantee agrees not to:
use, develop or exploit "confidential information" (including not to solicit further business), other than as expressly required for this Agreement; or
disclose "confidential information" to anyone other than the Delegate, unless compelled by Law.
The Grantee agrees to ensure its Personnel understand this clause 13 and that they agree to give undertakings, or consent to personal checks, in a form DVA may require, to sustain this clause 13.
The Grantee agrees to indemnify DVA and its Personnel against any Loss reasonably incurred from any Claim associated with the delivery of the Project under this Agreement.
The Grantee's liability under this clause 14 will reduce proportionally to the extent that DVA was at fault in contributing to the Loss.
The Grantee agrees, in ensuring its own viability as well as to support its commitments under this Agreement, to:
obtain and maintain appropriate insurance, including as agreed            in Part L [Accountability and Risk Management]; and 
promptly prove, upon DVA's request, that its insurance is current.
The Grantee agrees to warrant that, after diligent inquiry, no potential conflict of interest exists for it or its Personnel, including anything restricting the fair conduct or delivery of the Project or affecting DVA adversely.
The Grantee agrees not to, and agrees to ensure its Personnel do not, engage in any activity or obtain any interest creating a potential conflict of interest.
DVA may terminate this Agreement under clause 17 [Default] if it is satisfied that the Grantee has not complied with this clause 15.
The Grantee agrees not to represent itself, and agrees to ensure that its Personnel do not represent themselves, as:
being an employee or partner of DVA or its Personnel; or
able to bind or represent DVA or its Personnel (beyond any  express authority provided in Part D [Project and Timing]).
This Agreement does not:
make the Grantee an employee, partner or agent of DVA;
authorise the Grantee to bind or represent DVA; nor
entitle the Grantee to annual, sick or long service leave, or any other DVA employment entitlements.
Where a party has breached this Agreement in any way (default) it should take active measures to rectify the default as soon as possible, including discussing appropriate options with the other parties.
Where a party may reasonably rectify a default under this Agreement, the other parties may give it a written notice requiring rectification within:

If a party defaults in a way that cannot be rectified, then the other party may, by a notice in writing, terminate this Agreement:
completely; or
in part, where the default involves portions of the Project that are sufficiently severable.
DVA may, by notice in writing, terminate this Agreement, if the Grantee:
as an individual, becomes bankrupt (or enters into a scheme or arrangement with creditors), or as a corporation, becomes subject to a form of external administration under the Corporations Law; or
breaches any clauses or requirements providing DVA with a right to terminate under this clause 17.
If this Agreement is terminated, DVA shall:
not pay the Grantee any outstanding portion of the Grant; and
be entitled to recover from the Grantee:
any unspent portion of the Grant; or
an amount where DVA believes the Grantee has not complied with the purpose of the Grant.
The parties agree that mutual consideration exists under this Agreement to create a valid contract, and elements of the consideration include:
the payment to the Grantee; and 
the reporting obligations, licences and conduct of the Project in accordance with the Agreement by the Grantee, meeting DVA's policy outcomes and accountability requirements.
The law applicable to interpreting this Agreement is that of the State or Territory jurisdiction stated in Part O [Applicable Law].

The Company will work collaboratively with local youth and employment agencies to source the Trainee as requested by the Company (the "Company's Request") and in accordance with the Employer's requirements, as notified to the Company by the Employer.
The Company may also advertise and carry out interviews to assist it in sourcing suitable trainees for the Employer.
The Company shall:
provide information and assistance in respect to the Employer's administration of the Trainee during the Traineeship;
provide job-ready training, covering work and personal attributes, generic life-skills, information on the traineeship and potential career progression, information on necessary social support services including the Peer Network and Mentor Support Network provided by the Company;
link the Trainee into a Peer Network upon the completion of the Trainee's job-readiness training; 
link the Trainee into a Mentor Support Network for the first one (1) to six (6) months of the Traineeship, depending on the Trainee's needs;
through its Employer Support Coordinator, invite all supervisors and co-workers of the Trainee to attend an afternoon training session on supervision skills in traineeships and engaging with young people ("Supervisor Training");
provide Supervisor Training up to four (4) times during the Traineeship;
through its Employer Support Coordinator, meet with the Employer and provide advice on all the agencies involved in the Traineeship, provide a list of Registered Training Organisations and attend any necessary meetings to initiate the traineeship and develop the training plan; and
provide information to the Employer in respect to the Employer Incentive Programme.
The Employer engages the Company to provide the Services as an independent contractor.
The Company is not the Employer's employee, partner, legal representative, agent, joint venturer or franchisee.
The Company has no right or authority to bind the Employer, assume or create any obligations for or on behalf of the Employer, or make any representations or warranties for or on behalf of the Employer.
The Trainee is not the Company's employee, partner, legal representative, agent, joint venturer or franchisee.
No contractual relationship shall exist between the Company and the Trainee who has been placed with the Employer by the Company.
The Trainee has no right or authority to bind the Company, assume or create any obligations for or on behalf of the Company, or make any representations or warranties for or on behalf of the Company.
The Trainee is not entitled to any benefit from the Company usually attributable to an employee.
The Employer agrees to exercise sufficient control over the work performed by the Trainee who has been placed with the Employer by the Company under this Agreement as might be necessary to ensure that that work complies with lawful and reasonable directions issued to the Trainee by the Employer from time to time.
The Company represents warrants and agrees that it will verify the qualifications and experience of the Trainee and will ensure that he or she is suitable for the position to be filled with the Employer.
If not satisfied with the work performed by the Trainee during the first three (3) month's of the Trainee's employment with the Employer, the Employer will use its best endeavours to work with the Company to resolve any performance issues identified by the Employer.
In the event that the issues cannot be resolved to the Employer's reasonable satisfaction, the Company must replace that Trainee with another trainee as soon as possible, but no later than two (2) weeks from the time of the Employer's written notification.
The Employer must obtain and maintain at all times during the employment of the Trainee the following:
public liability insurance to provide cover of not less than $10,000,000;
workers' compensation insurance which coverage shall cover the Trainee;
third party and property damage insurance with coverage in the sum of $10,000,000; and
any other insurance that the Company considers necessary to ensure the interests of the Company are protected against any liability incurred through the performance of this Agreement.
All policies of insurance required to be obtained and maintained by the Employer pursuant to this clause will be taken out with a responsible insurance office approved to undertake insurance business in Australia under the Insurance Act 1973 (Commonwealth).
The Employer must provide to the Company copies of the certificates of currency for each of the insurance policies referred to in subclause (a) within twenty-one (21) days of a request made by the Company.
The Employer agrees to: 
employ and train the Trainee for the entire period of the Traineeship;
forward information to the Company, regarding the salary, skills and competencies required for the position of the trainee with the Employer within one (1) week of executing this Agreement;
encourage and allow supervisory staff to participate in the Supervisor's Training Session provided by the Company;
liaise with the Company's Employer Support Coordinator or the Trainee's Support Coordinator if there are any concerns or assistance required during the period of the Traineeship;
During the Traineeship, the Employer will be solely responsible for and solely bear the liability for:
the payment of remuneration to the Trainee, including without limitation the salaries and wages, superannuation, annual leave, sick leave, long service leave and other benefits to which the Trainee may be entitled under any rule, statute, common law or industrial instrument (as defined in relevant legislation);
the payment of all taxes and duties in respect of such remuneration and benefits;
compliance with and the cost of compliance with, all statutory, award or other legal or contractual requirements with respect to the Trainee;
the maintenance of and the cost of obtaining a workers' compensation policy providing coverage for the Trainee.
At no time will the Company or any company related to the Company have any responsibility with respect to the payment of salary or wages to the Trainee nor the payment of any payroll tax, PAYE taxation instalments or superannuation guarantee charge associated will the employment of the Trainee, nor will the Company or any company related to the Company  have any responsibility in respect of any annual leave, sick leave or long service leave which may accrue to the Trainee, nor will the Company or any company related to the Company have any responsibility in respect of any other benefits to which the Trainee may otherwise become entitled under any industrial instrument, statute or common law.
The Employer agrees to supervise and train the Trainee during the Traineeship.
The Employer agrees to comply with its workplace responsibilities, including (without limitation) those set out in the Occupational Safety and Health Act (WA) 1984 and the Equal Opportunity Act (WA) 1984.
The Employer will pay the Company, in respect of the sourcing of the Trainee by the Company and the placement of the Trainee with the Employer, $5,500.00 (inclusive of GST) immediately upon receipt of an invoice issued by the Company to the Employer ("Fee").
The Company shall issue an invoice to the Employer for the Fee one (1) month after the commencement of the Traineeship.
Legislation may provide that, as a client of the Company, the Employer is liable for any pay-roll tax payable when it employs the Trainee.
The Fee is inclusive of any payroll tax whether it is paid by the Company or the Employer.
If the Company is required to pay payroll tax the Fee will be adjusted accordingly.
The Employer must: 
make all reasonable attempts to ensure that all work carried out by the Trainee complies with all occupational health and safety requirements in accordance with the laws of the State or Territory in which the work is carried out; 
ensure that the Trainee is not exposed to risks to his or her health or safety or hazards arising from his or her employment with the Employer; 
ensure that any equipment or facilities provided for use by the Trainee in his or her employment with the Employer are safe and without risks to health and safety when properly used;
ensure that systems of work and the working environment are safe and without risks to health; and
provide such information, instruction, training and supervision as may be necessary to ensure that the work performed by the Trainee is provided without hazards or risks to health and safety.
The Employer must ensure that the Trainee placed with the Employer by the Company and employed by the Employer:
fully complies with the appropriate regulations, standards and legislation; 
abides by and fully comply with all relevant occupational health and safety procedures of the Employer whilst employed by the Employer; 
exercises reasonable and necessary precautions which are appropriate to the nature of the work and the conditions under which the work is carried out; and
receives adequate training to ensure tasks are undertaken in a manner that minimises the risk to the Trainee's own health and safety and the health and safety of others, and that the Trainee will not undertake any tasks for which they have not received adequate training; and
The Employer must notify the Company of any injury sustained by the Trainee on the Employer's premises or during the employment of the Trainee by the Employer.
The Employer must maintain the confidentiality of and not disclose any trade secret, confidential information or commercially sensitive information about the Company or any of its related bodies corporate obtained through entering into this Agreement, other than when required by law or when the information falls into the public domain.
The Employer must ensure that the Trainee maintains the confidentiality of and does not disclose any trade secret, confidential information or commercially sensitive information about the Company or any of its related bodies corporate obtained through the Employer entering into this Agreement, other than when required by law or when the information falls into the public domain.
This clause will survive termination of this Agreement

Both parties represent, warrant and agree that:
they have the right, power and authority to enter into and perform their respective obligations in accordance with this Agreement; 
all corporate and other necessary action has been taken by each of them to authorise the signing and performance of this Agreement;
this Agreement is valid and legally binding on them in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.
The Employer represents, warrants and agrees that:
it possesses and will continue to possess and deploy, during the term of the Agreement the requisite skills, experience, resources and infrastructure to employ the Trainee and hold all relevant authorisations required by law to employ the Trainee; and
it will comply with any applicable industrial awards or agreements that apply in respect of the employment of the Trainee.
The Employer indemnifies the Company and its related bodies corporate and keeps each of them indemnified, from and against all liability, loss, damage, penalty, charge, claim, harm, injury, costs or expenses of any kind whatsoever (including consequential loss) ("Loss") incurred or suffered directly or indirectly from or in connection with:
a breach of this Agreement by the Employer;
the termination of this Agreement because of a breach by the Employer;
any wilful, unlawful or negligent act or omission of the Employer or the Trainee;
any injury to or death of a natural person and any loss of or damage to a third party's real or personal property caused or contributed to by the Employer or the Trainee;
any loss of or damage to real or personal property of the Company, caused by or contributed to by the Employer or the Trainee;
any claim, action, demand or proceeding by a third party against the Company or any of its related bodies corporate caused by or contributed to by the Employer or the Trainee; or
any claim, action, demand or proceeding by a third party against the Company or any of its related bodies corporate arising directly or indirectly out of a breach of this Agreement by the Employer or the Trainee, or by any wilful, unlawful or negligent act or omission of the Employer or the Trainee,
 except to the extent that any Loss is solely and directly caused by the negligence of the Company or any of its related bodies corporate.
For the purposes of subclause (c), the Company has entered into this Agreement as principal and also as agent for each of its related bodies corporate.
The terms and conditions of subclause (c) will also be available and will extend to protect the Company's related bodies corporate.
This clause will survive termination of this Agreement.
The Employer must pay all costs and expenses (including legal costs on a solicitor and own client basis, recovery costs and mercantile agent's fees) which the Company may incur in attempting to enforce its rights under this Agreement.
The Company may terminate this Agreement immediately, without any reason and without the payment of any compensation.
Either party may terminate this Agreement at any time by giving [insert number of days] days' notice in writing to the other.
The Employer may not assign this Agreement or any of its obligations under this Agreement or otherwise transfer the benefit of this Agreement or a right or remedy under it, without the prior written consent of the Company.
This Agreement may only be amended in writing.
This Agreement is governed by the laws of Western Australia.
This agreement constitutes the entire agreement between the parties as to the subject matters on which it provides.
Headings will not affect the interpretation of this Agreement.
  

This Agreement shall be known as the NRL/RLPA Agreement 2007.
Each Party agrees and acknowledges that:
by executing this Agreement they are entering into a legally binding agreement between all the Parties to this Agreement and it is binding on and legally enforceable against the Parties and the persons specified in clause 4.1; and
this Agreement is to be legally enforceable by the Parties.
This Agreement shall operate on and from 1 November 2006 until 31 October 2010, unless:
terminated earlier in accordance with the terms of this Agreement; or
extended by the written agreement of the Parties.
Any discussions in relation to the renewal of this Agreement shall commence at least six months prior to the nominal expiry date of 31 October 2010.
The RLPA and the NRL acknowledge that the agreement between the RLPA and the NRL dated 20 April 2005 ceases to operate on 31 October 2006, unless terminated earlier in accordance with the terms of that agreement.
The NRL and the RLPA will comply with the following Communications Protocol:
where the RLPA has an issue about which it has a genuine concern, either on behalf of a particular Player or on behalf of Players generally, the RLPA shall raise the issue with the NRL in writing, except in cases of urgency;
where the RLPA has raised any issues, the NRL and the RLPA will meet within 14 days to discuss the issue and attempt to reach an agreed position in relation to that issue.
If an agreed position is reached, the NRL and the RLPA will endeavour to issue an agreed joint press release; 
in the case of urgent issues, the RLPA will make every effort to contact the NRL and discuss issues as they arise, so as to ensure both the NRL and RLPA are fully abreast of all aspects of the issue, prior to making comments to the media;
where the NRL has an issue relating to the RLPA about which it has a genuine concern, the NRL shall raise the issue with the RLPA in writing, except in cases of urgency;
where the NRL has raised an issue relating to the RLPA, the NRL and the RLPA will meet within 14 days to discuss the issue and attempt to reach an agreed position in relation to that issue.
If an agreed position is reached, the NRL and the RLPA will endeavour to issue an agreed joint press release; and
in the case of urgent issues relating to the RLPA, the NRL will make every effort to contact the RLPA and discuss issues as they arise, so as to ensure both the NRL and RLPA are fully abreast of all aspects of the issue, prior to making comments to the media.
Where the NRL proposes to amend the NRL Rules (including any Schedules or Guidelines to the NRL Rules) and such amendments will directly affect the interests of Players, the NRL shall advise the RLPA of its intention to do so.
In any case where the NRL has advised the RLPA of its intention to amend the NRL Rules (including any Schedules to the NRL Rules), the RLPA shall be afforded a reasonable opportunity by the NRL to review the final draft of any change to the NRL Rules and to make submissions to it and/or consult with it concerning the proposed amendment.
Further, the RLPA shall be afforded a reasonable opportunity to appear before the Board of the NRL to make representations concerning the proposed amendment.
the Communications Protocol set out in clause 6 above must be complied with by the Parties in relation to consultation in accordance with this clause; and 
the NRL does not require the agreement of the RLPA before introducing or amending the NRL Rules (including any Schedules or Guidelines to the NRL Rules).
In relation to any future broadcasting or internet rights arrangements, the NRL will include the RLPA in consultation to the same extent it includes the NRL Clubs in discussions in respect of such arrangements.
The RLPA agrees that it will not enter into any discussions regarding such arrangements.
The RLPA shall, in any case where the NRL requests it to do so, afford the NRL a reasonable opportunity to address the Board of the RLPA or the members of the RLPA in general meeting.
Where a grievance arises between the RLPA and the NRL, they shall confer with a view to resolving the grievance.
If the grievance relates to an issue covered by this Agreement, the NRL and RLPA shall refer the issue to an agreed third party for mediation.
If the parties are unable to agree, the President of the NRL Appeals Committee will appoint a mediator.
The mediation must be conducted in accordance with the terms of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, unless otherwise agreed between the parties.
The NRL will require that NRL Clubs only use the NRL Club Grant made to each NRL Club each Season for the purpose of paying Remuneration to their Players.
If an NRL Club goes into liquidation or some other form of insolvency:
the entitlement of the NRL Club to the NRL Club Grant for that Season ceases;
the NRL must pay any Player Guarantee Amount to the Players contracted to that NRL Club as follows:
first, Players who are not entitled to receive a Minimum Remuneration Package of $55,000 will be paid from the Player Guarantee Amount some or all of any unpaid contracted Remuneration owing for that Season (which will, where necessary, be paid on a pro rata basis); and
then, Players who are entitled to receive a Minimum Remuneration Package of $55,000 will be paid from the Player Guarantee Amount all or some of any unpaid contracted Remuneration owing for that Season (which will, where necessary due to insufficient funds, be paid on a pro rata basis).
If an NRL Club goes into liquidation or some other form of insolvency, the NRL, in consultation with the RLPA, will use its best efforts to ensure that all Players who were contracted to that NRL Club obtain a Playing Contract with another NRL Club.
In fulfilling this commitment, the NRL agrees that, if it determines that such action is appropriate in the circumstances, it will introduce a special Salary Cap exemption, after  consultation with the RLPA.
In particular, if a Player: 
has been unable to obtain a contract at another rugby league club (whether or not an NRL Club); and 
has not received a contract offer from another rugby league club (whether or not an NRL Club) which matches his playing fee under his Playing Contract with his NRL Club, then the NRL will, after consultation with the RLPA, consider introducing a special Salary Cap exemption for this Player and shall make a decision as to that matter.
The Player may seek that the decision be reviewed by the NRL Appeals Committee in accordance with the provisions of the ACP Rules.
The NRL and the RLPA recognise the importance of a Salary Cap and acknowledge that the Salary Cap limits, in a reasonable way, the remuneration that may be paid by, or on behalf of, any one NRL Club to its Players.
The NRL will increase the Total Club Salary Cap as follows:
for the 2007 Season the Total Club Salary Cap will be $4.0 million;
for the 2008 Season the Total Club Salary Cap will be $4.0 million;
for the 2009 Season the Total Club Salary Cap will be $4.1 million; and
for the 2010 Season the Total Club Salary Cap will be $4.1 million.
For the avoidance of doubt, the Total Club Salary Cap figure will include the Salary Cap plus the Veteran Players Allowance, the Sponsor Servicing Allowance, NRL contributions to the Players Retirement Account in respect of that NRL Club and any amount remitted by the NRL to the RLPA, and will be subject to the PCR Rules.
The NRL agrees that for Seasons 2008, 2009 and 2010, if the NRL Club Grant is increased, the Total Club Salary Cap will be increased by at least 30% of the increase in the NRL Club Grant.
The RLPA may direct that any increase in the Total Club Salary Cap pursuant to this clause be implemented as an increase to the amount to be paid by the NRL to the Player Retirement Account instead of as an increase to the Salary Cap component.
The NRL agrees that any increases in the monies paid to NRL Clubs will be made via the NRL Club Grant.
In the event that the NRL has a one-off net profit of greater than $10 million in any given Season (an 'Unexpected Net Profit'), the NRL will negotiate with the RLPA in relation to the percentage of the Unexpected Net Profit to be distributed to Players.
Increases in the NRL Club Grant which result from an Unexpected Net Profit will be subject to clause 11.4.
To the extent that any Player's Playing Contract provides for adjustments to the Player's remuneration on the basis of increases to the Salary Cap, it is acknowledged that the inclusion of the Allowances, NRL contributions to the Players Retirement Account and any funding remitted by the NRL to the RLPA in the Total Club Salary Cap is not an increase in the Salary Cap for the purpose of such adjustments to the Player's remuneration.
The SCA will provide a list detailing the names of the Top 25 Players, who have been nominated in each Club's Pre Season Statutory Declaration, to the Chief Executive of the RLPA within 14 days of the NRL receiving the Declaration.
The NRL agrees to vary the PCR Rules in relation to the terms of the Sponsor Servicing Allowance so as to ensure all Players are able to access this maximum $200,000 allowance without restriction.
The NRL agrees to vary the PCR Rules in relation to the eligibility criteria for the Veteran Player Allowance to make the allowance available for NRL Clubs with Players who have at least eight years' continuous service at that NRL Club since their first appearance in Grade Football.
The NRL agrees to vary the PCR rules in relation to the Third Party Agreement Allowance ('TPA Allowance') so that:
from the 2007 Season the TPA Allowance will be increased to $150,000 per NRL Club; 
if more than 75% of NRL Clubs access the full amount of the TPA Allowance, the SCA will raise the allowance by a further $50,000 to $200,000 per NRL Club;
the TPA Allowance will be expanded so it is available to three of the Top Six Players at each NRL Club, to a maximum of $50,000 per Player; 
where an NRL Club has three of its Top Six Players utilising some, but not all, of the NRL Club's TPA Allowance, the NRL Club may apply to the NRL to make the balance of the available TPA Allowance available to its remaining three of its Top Six Players; and
a Top Six Player of an NRL Club may apply to have more than one Third Party Agreement approved, subject to the following conditions:
the minimum value of an individual  Third Party Agreement for a Player is $10,000; and
the total maximum value of Third Party Agreements for a Player is $50,000.
The NRL will conduct an annual review of the above allowances in consultation with the RLPA.
The NRL Rules (including the Schedules to those Rules) form part of the Playing Contract and their observance is a fundamental obligation on the part of all Players.
The NRL will amend the PCR Rules so that the protocol set out in clauses 13.5 to 13.6 below will apply to any requirement of a Player to produce for the inspection of the SCA, or the NRL, personal financial records such as income tax returns, bank statements, group certificates or the like.
The protocol may only be used to request access to Player records which relate to his Remuneration.
The protocol cannot be used to request access to the personal financial records of a Player's partner, family members or other associates.
For the avoidance of doubt, the NRL will not penalise any Player for his involvement in a Salary Cap breach, except in the case of an exceptional circumstance.
An exceptional circumstance is understood to mean a circumstance where a Player is knowingly concerned or involved in a breach of the PCR Rules.
In any case where the SCA has good cause, through the existence of reliable evidence, to suspect that an NRL Club has failed to make complete disclosure to the SCA or to the NRL of the Remuneration paid to its Players, and after the SCA has used all other reasonably available means of verifying that Remuneration, the SCA may seek verification of the Remuneration paid to a particular Player or Players by that NRL Club in accordance with the following procedure:
in the first instance, the SCA may ask the Player concerned to produce specific personal financial records and, if the Player does not object, the Player shall produce the specified records to the SCA who may inspect them;
if the Player objects to production, then the matter will be referred to the SCR Committee;
if the matter is referred to the SCR Committee:
the SCA shall provide to the SCR Committee: 
details of the suspicion and evidence that good cause exists for his suspicion;
details of the specific financial records the SCA requires the Player to produce; and
details of the alleged breach of the NRL Rules; 
The SCA will provide this in the format of a 'Terms of Reference' setting out the details of the suspicion and evidence that good cause exists for his suspicion, specific records which are required to be produced by the Player and the details of the alleged breach of the NRL Rules.
This information shall be provided a minimum of 72 hours in advance of the meeting of the SCR Committee; and
after hearing from the SCA the SCR Committee shall determine by majority decision whether good cause exists;
if the SCR Committee determines that good cause exists, the SCA may proceed further, in accordance with the steps set forth in subclauses 13.5(e) to (m) below;
if the SCR Committee determines that good cause does not exist, neither the SCA nor the NRL may further pursue any requirement of the Player to produce his personal financial records, unless new evidence comes to hand, in which event this procedure must be started afresh;
where the SCR Committee has determined, that good cause exists, the SCA shall provide the Player (and his duly appointed representative or the RLPA or both, as requested by the Player) concerned with the names of a panel of three chartered accountants from the 'top four' chartered accountant firms, each from different firms ('the Panel'), and each of whom will provide a written undertaking to the Player to keep any information or the contents of any documents disclosed to him or her pursuant to this procedure strictly confidential, save to the extent that disclosure is hereby permitted;
within 48 hours of being provided with the Panel: 
the Player must select a chartered accountant to conduct the verification ('Selected Chartered Accountant'); and 
the Player or his duly appointed representative must advise the SCA of the name of the Selected Chartered Accountant;
the SCA shall then make arrangements for the Selected Chartered Accountant to be retained at the cost of the NRL to verify the Remuneration paid to that Player in accordance with the relevant Terms of Reference;
thereafter, and within five business days of the Selected Chartered Accountant being retained, the Player must attend on the Selected Chartered Accountant and produce such personal financial records as have been specified in the Terms of Reference, for review by the Selected Chartered Accountant.
The NRL will pay for or reimburse all reasonable professional accounting or bank fees of the Player directly incurred in the production of these records.
During any attendance on the Selected Chartered Accountant the Player may be represented by the RLPA and/or a second representative at the request of the Player;
the Selected Chartered Accountant shall, in the presence of the Player and, if applicable, his representatives, examine the records produced in the presence of the Player and then return the documents to the Player;
the Selected Chartered Accountant shall then provide a report in writing to the NRL and the Player (and, if requested by the Player, the RLPA) based upon his or her examination of the records so produced (identifying the same) detailing the Player's compliance with the NRL Rules; and
if the Selected Chartered Accountant has determined that, on the evidence produced, there has been no breach of the NRL Rules, the report will state that to be the case but will not convey any other information in relation to the Player; and
if the Selected Chartered Accountant has determined that, on the evidence produced, there has been a breach of the NRL Rules, the report will confirm the breach and the extent of the breach but will not convey any other information in relation to the Player;
if, however, the Selected Chartered Accountant is in doubt as to whether particular income may properly be categorised as Remuneration, the Selected Chartered Accountant may consult the SCR Committee on a strictly confidential basis and thereby seek its opinion; and
once the certification of the Selected Chartered Accountant is received by the NRL, it shall constitute irrebuttable evidence of the contents of the records that were examined in any proceedings taken in accordance with the NRL Rules.
there will not be 'good cause' for a suspicion unless that suspicion is supported by some independent evidence; and
nothing in the NRL Rules or Schedules to the NRL Rules (including the PCR Rules) will be construed so as to permit the taking of breach proceedings against a Player for his participation in or contribution to the breach by an NRL Club of the PCR Rules relating to the Salary Cap unless that Player has participated in or has contributed to that breach knowing that his participation or contribution would assist his NRL Club to breach those NRL Rules.
The NRL agrees to issue Players with a guideline that explains and provides examples of the way in which Third Party Agreements (as that expression is defined in the PCR Rules) should operate.
RLPA has a right to consult with the SCA or the NRL concerning any determination made by the SCA to the effect that an arrangement entered into by a Player was a Third Party Agreement (as that expression is defined in the PCR Rules) and that the Remuneration paid to the Player under that arrangement was included in the Salary Cap Calculation (as that expression is defined in the PCR Rules).
If, after the above process has been followed, a Player wishes to review the determination made by the SCA concerning a Third Party Agreement, then the Player, or his duly appointed representative, may request a review by the SCR Committee to be conducted as described in clause 13.5(c).
On any such review, the Player concerned, the NRL Club concerned, and the SCA may appear before the SCR Committee, adduce relevant evidence and make submissions, following which the SCR Committee shall decide by majority decision whether the determination of the SCA should be upheld, set aside or varied, which decision by the SCR Committee shall thereafter be final and binding on the NRL, the NRL Club concerned and the Player concerned.
The ACP Rules will be amended by the NRL so as to provide that the NRL Appeals Committee will be constituted as follows:
a legally qualified person to be appointed by the Board of the NRL to act as President;
one member, who is not legally qualified, to be appointed by the RLPA; and
one member, who is not legally qualified, to be appointed by the Chairman of the Council of the NRL Clubs.
For the avoidance of doubt, the persons nominated by the RLPA and the Chairman of the Council of the NRL Clubs will be required to have a recognised standing within the game of Rugby League and will be expected to approach the task from an independent viewpoint.
The NRL acknowledges that if, during the term of the Agreement, a new President of the NRL Appeals Committee needs to be appointed the NRL will consult with the RLPA prior to making such appointment.
Where the interests of a particular Player or Players in general might be affected by the outcome of a proceeding before the NRL Appeals Committee, other than appeals from decisions of the NRL Judiciary, the NRL Drugs Tribunal or any similar body exercising a disciplinary function over Players, and at least one of the Players whose interests might be affected wishes the RLPA to represent that Player, the RLPA will be entitled to seek leave to intervene and, if leave to intervene is granted by the President of the NRL Appeals Committee, the RLPA shall be entitled to be legally represented and to make submissions as to the outcome.
To remove any doubt, whilst the RLPA will not have an automatic right to intervene or a separate right to be heard in:
proceedings before the NRL Appeals Committee which are appeals from decisions of the NRL Judiciary, the NRL Drugs Tribunal or any similar body exercising a disciplinary function over Players; or
hearings of the NRL Judiciary, the NRL Drugs Tribunal or any similar body exercising a disciplinary function over Players, 
it may represent a Player in those hearings if the Player agrees to that occurring in lieu of any other representation of him, providing that leave to do so is given by the person or persons conducting those hearings.
The NRL will conduct an annual review of the NRL Appeals Committee in consultation with the RLPA.
An authorised representative(s) of the RLPA may inspect the NRL's annual audited financial statements at the NRL's offices within 14 days of the NRL receiving a written request from the RLPA to do so and provided that the authorised representative provides an undertaking in relation to confidentiality in respect of the financial statements.
The NRL will use its best endeavours to ensure that Players will be provided, when selected for a Representative Match, with a representative agreement that details remuneration and contributions to the Representative Player Account including remuneration for shadow and emergency reserve Players for Representative Matches and Players not participating for entire tours or camps and that provides for at least the relevant payment from the payment scheduled set out under clause 17.1 and the relevant daily allowance set out under subclause 17.3.
The NRL agrees to further consult with the RLPA with the aim of introducing more detailed guidelines for the payment of representative Players when they are not able to complete a full Tri-Nations Tournament or Kangaroo Tour.
In addition to the representative payments provided for under clause 17.1, Players representing Australia will receive the following daily allowances: A$100 when in Australia, NZ$120 when in New Zealand and GBP80 when in Europe.
The NRL will use its best endeavours to ensure that the ARL discusses with the RLPA the forecast budget for the Rugby League World Cup and the level and structure of the tour payment, however, under no circumstances will the total payments and contingent benefits be less than $10,000 per Player, comprising a payment of $5,000 to the Player and a contribution to the Representative Player Account of $5,000.
Contributions to the Representative Player Account are made in accordance with the  MOU.
The NRL and the RLPA agree to work together to approach the New Zealand Rugby League about the scale of representative payments for New Zealand NRL Players.
The NRL and RLPA agree to work with the ARL to implement and apply a guideline for the timing of representative Player payments with the aim of having these payments made within 60 days of the completion of the representative commitment.
For the 2007, 2008, 2009 and 2010 Season, the NRL will contribute to the Players Retirement Account a total amount of $1,280,000 during each Season in relation to all Players in NRL Clubs Top 25 Training Squads on the following basis:
Where a Player is nominated to be in the Top 25 Training Squad at a Club for a third consecutive Season the Player will receive an entitlement to 4 units for that Season;
Where a Player is nominated to be in the Top 25 Training Squad at a Club for any Season which is not at least the Player's third consecutive Season, the Player will receive an entitlement to 3 units;
The value of each unit is calculated according to the following formula:($1,280,000 + any additional distributions made according to Clause 18.3)

For the purposes of this clause, in respect of the 2005 Season and 2006 Season, a Player will be deemed to have been nominated to be in the Top 25 Training Squad of the NRL Club if he was in the NRL Club's Top 25 Salary Cap at the end of the relevant Season.
Contributions to the Players Retirement Account are made in accordance with the MOU.
The RLPA and the NRL acknowledge that the operation of some of the clauses in this Agreement may result in an increase in the amounts contributed by the NRL to the Players Retirement Account.
The NRL and the RLPA are committed to ensuring that NRL Clubs maintain minimum standards of welfare and educational services for Players.
The NRL will consult with the RLPA regarding these welfare and educational services.
The NRL will provide $528,000 per annum for the purpose of making available education and welfare benefits in respect of the Players in accordance with the education and welfare guidelines determined by the NRL/RLPA Education and Welfare Committee from time to time.
In addition to the NRL/RLPA Education and Welfare Committee that is already established, where the NRL establishes a committee to consider issues relating to the education and welfare of Players, it will invite the RLPA to nominate a representative to the Committee.
Where a Player begins a study course that is subsidized by the NRL/RLPA Education and Welfare Committee during his NRL playing career and completion of the study course extends into retirement from the NRL as a professional Rugby League Player, the Player shall be entitled to continue to receive that subsidy while the Player continues to study through the course completion.
A retiring Player may be entitled to receive education and welfare benefits for himself and his family for a period of up to two years from the date of the Player's formal retirement as a professional Rugby League Player.
An entitlement to benefits under this clause 20 will be subject to approval by the NRL/RLPA Education and Welfare Committee on a case by case basis and will be funded from a discretionary fund established by the NRL/RLPA Education and Welfare Committee.
The NRL and RLPA agree to work co-operatively towards the identification of potential hazards to Players, consult as to appropriate measures to reduce the risk of harm to Players through those hazards and together implement those measures, so far as is it is reasonably practicable to do so.
The NRL will maintain a committee dealing with occupational health and safety that includes RLPA representation.
This OH&S committee must meet at least biannually to:
discuss general industry matters relating to OH&S, including but not limited to heat limits and playing surface conditions; and
establish a protocol for assessing such risks and the elimination or control of such risks.
The NRL will put in place an insurance policy which will provide death or significant permanent disability cover for Players in each NRL Club's Top 25 Training Squad.
The maximum benefit payable to the Player or his estate is $500,000.
The NRL must require each NRL Club to nominate the Players in their Top 25 Training Squad to be covered by the insurance policy for the following year, by 30 November each year.
Each Player in an NRL Club's Top 25 Training Squad will be covered by the insurance policy from 12am on 1st December that year until 30 November of the following calendar year.
Any NRL Player, who is not a member of an NRL Club's Top 25 Training Squad, who plays in an NRL Competition match during the Season will be covered from 12am on the day of his debut that Season to 30 November of that calendar year.
Those Players covered by the insurance policy under clause 22.1 or clause 22.2 will have continuous cover for the relevant period described above for death or significant permanent disability, whether or not a claim under the insurance policy is made by the Player in relation to the Player's participation in an NRL Competition match.
The RLPA and NRL agree to implement an independent compulsory Agent Accreditation Scheme by no later than 30 April 2007 or such later date, if agreed.
It is intended that the terms of the Agent Accreditation Scheme will provide that the NRL will not register any Playing Contract that has been negotiated on behalf of a Player by a Player Agent who has not been accredited pursuant to the compulsory Agent Accreditation Scheme.
The RLPA acknowledges the potential for conflicts between RLPA sponsors and NRL sponsors, NRL partners, NRL Club sponsors and NRL Club partners and agrees that: 
it will not enter into new sponsorships during the term of this agreement without the express written agreement of the NRL; and
it will not renew any existing sponsorships with sponsors that conflict with NRL Sponsors, NRL partners, NRL Club sponsors and NRL Club partners, except that it may renew its sponsorship arrangement with The Sun Herald on the same terms as are in place as at 31 May 2006.
The NRL will notify the RLPA of whether it agrees or disagrees with a proposed new RLPA sponsorship within 7 days of receiving a written summary of the proposed arrangement from the RLPA.
The NRL will assist the RLPA to obtain sponsorships as appropriate subject to agreement being reached between the RLPA and the NRL about how the funds obtained through these sponsorships are to be utilised.
It is acknowledged agreement may be reached to direct the net funds provided by these sponsorships to Player benefits, such as support of an annual ball, other Player functions, a Player charity, grass roots rugby league or the Players Retirement Account.
The NRL will work with the RLPA to provide benefit offers from NRL sponsors to Players.
The NRL and RLPA will agree to guidelines detailing the circumstances in which other organisations can provide benefit offers that may be provided to Players, so as to avoid conflicts with the NRL and NRL Club sponsorship programs, and to protect the NRL and NRL Club intellectual property rights.
The NRL recognises that all Players have the right to earn additional income through work in the area of promotions, marketing and advertising, providing such work does not breach the PCR Rules or conflict with an individual Player's obligations pursuant to his Playing Contract or, relevantly, conflict with the grant of exclusivity made to sponsors of the NRL, the Player's NRL Club or representative bodies.
In recognition of these competing objectives, the NRL and the RLPA agree to the phasing in over time (once existing contractual relationships come to an end) of the following limitations:
a maximum of six protected sponsors, each of an annual sponsorship value (cash plus contra) of a minimum of $75,000, for each NRL Club;
a maximum of six protected sponsors for the NRL, except that, in addition exclusivity will be offered and provided to the NRL's media partners (eg.
Channel 9, 2GB, Fox Sports and News Limited);
a maximum of six protected sponsors in total for representative bodies.
The NRL will provide to the RLPA a list that details the sponsors nominated under clause 25.3 by 28 February each year and where more than six sponsors have an existing exclusivity arrangement, the date when these arrangements expire, provided that, if as at 28 February of the year, the NRL is in negotiations with one or more sponsors and has made reasonable efforts to finalise those negotiations prior to 28 February but has been unable to do so, the NRL may provide the list to the RLPA on or before the commencement of the Season.
Nomination of protected sponsors by Clubs and representative teams will be co-ordinated by the NRL.
Where an NRL sponsor or a sponsor of a representative body utilises an image of a single Player or up to, but not more than, three clearly identifiable Players in an advertising campaign for the promotion of their product or service, then the NRL will ensure that the sponsor enters into a commercial arrangement with the relevant Player or Players prior to the advertising campaign commencing.
To avoid doubt, this does not mean that the use of Player images for promotion or development of rugby league requires the payment of a commercial fee.
NRL agrees to assist the RLPA in its efforts to obtain a tax ruling to enable all Players or certain classes of Players on a case by case basis to quarantine earnings relating to the use of intellectual image and marketing property.
If the tax ruling is obtained, the NRL agrees to support associated changes to the Playing Contract.
Where a Ruling applicable to certain classes of Players is unable to be obtained, the NRL will work with the RLPA to explore alternative ways to ensure that all Players, where appropriate, have the opportunity to quarantine earnings relating to use of their Intellectual Property.
Where the NRL has appointed a licensee for the commercial sale of signed official Grand Final, State of Origin, Australian test team, captain, coach or Dally M winner or any other NRL Official Licensed Memorabilia, each Player will be entitled to a payment per signature as follows:
$10 per item for team signed products;
$20 per item for product carrying dual signatories; and
$30 per item for individual products, 
provided that this scale does not apply for charity or sponsor fulfilment items.
For the avoidance of doubt this scale will not apply to NRL Club produced license memorabilia (produced in accordance with approval from NRL Licensing) or memorabilia subject to clause 26.2.
Payment scales for NRL Club produced licensed memorabilia are to be determined by the respective Club after consultation with their Players.
For NRL Official Licensed Memorabilia items relating to individuals, such as pieces in relation to the reaching of a career milestone or achieving an elite status in the game, but which are not covered by clause 26.1, the fee payable to the Player will be determined by agreement between the Player, or his agent, and the licensee, however the fee shall be no less than $30 per signature per item.
The NRL or the NRL Club will provide prior notification to the Player of the purpose for which the Player is required to sign memorabilia, in particular where that memorabilia is NRL Official Licensed Memorabilia subject to the payments detailed in clause 26.1.
In relation to official NRL trading cards, the NRL agrees to provide every Player individually featured in an official NRL trading card with an annual payment of 80% of the royalty rate received by the NRL in respect of that individual card.
Further, the NRL agrees to provide the RLPA with access to the details of any licensing fee income that the NRL receives in relation to the sale of official NRL trading cards.
Subject to subclause 27.2, during the NRL Finals Series, the NRL will directly provide four reserved tickets to the 17 Players nominated for each team published in Big League on the Wednesday preceding the relevant match.
For Representative Matches played in Australia, the NRL will use its best endeavours to ensure that the appropriate rugby league body will directly provide four premium tickets to the 17 Players published in each official team list preceding the relevant match.
If a Player is participating in a Test played overseas, the NRL will use its best endeavours to ensure that the ARL uses its best endeavours to provide up to four premium tickets to the Player for family or friends, providing the Player provides at least five days' notice of this request to the ARL.
The availability of tickets to matches will be dependant upon the venue and the RLPA acknowledges that, although the NRL will make its best efforts to fulfil its obligation under clause 27.2 , this will not always be possible.
The NRL will use its best endeavours to ensure that for Representative Matches played in Australia the appropriate rugby league body pays for all reasonable travel and accommodation expenses incurred by a Player in the authorised performance of his obligations to participate in that Representative Match.
Where a Player has been injured at an away game involving air travel, and the team's Medical Officer is of the opinion that special travel arrangements are necessary for the Player's comfort and/or recuperation, the NRL will use its best endeavours to liaise with the NRL travel agency and/or airline in an attempt to secure suitable return travel arrangements which may, depending on the type of injury, include the provision of seating with additional leg room (such as that afforded by seating fronting on to an exit or seating in the business class section) provided such seating is available on the flight on which the Player is scheduled to travel, with any additional cost being met by the Player's team.
The NRL will ensure that each RLPA board member receives an 'All Areas Access' pass to enable authorised representatives of the RLPA to access the change rooms and tunnel at all NRL Competition matches and Representative Matches.
The NRL will provide to the RLPA four reserved seats for each match in the Finals Series of the NRL Competition and each Representative Match and, where the NRL has sufficient car parking spaces available for those matches and the RLPA requests it, the NRL will provide one car park pass for each of those matches.
the NRL Club will use its reasonable endeavours to comply with that request, subject to its pre-existing ticketing commitments; and
in no case shall more than four premium seats be allocated to the RLPA for any regular season NRL Competition match.
Where tickets for an NRL Competition match have been provided to the RLPA in accordance with clause 31.1 above, the NRL Club will provide one car park pass to the RLPA for that match, provided that:
the NRL Club has sufficient car parking space available; and
the RLPA has included a written request to the NRL Club for the car park pass with its request for premium seating.
Where a Player has authorised an NRL Club in writing to deduct RLPA membership contributions from amounts payable by the NRL Club to the Player, the NRL Club must deduct those RLPA membership contributions in accordance with the deduction authority.
Payments will be forwarded to the RLPA:
after the presentation of a completed deduction authority to the NRL Club's accounts department, provided such authorities are received by 15 March of the relevant year; and
within 14 days of the associated deduction of those amounts from the Player's monthly pay.
where the breach is capable of rectification and that breach has not been rectified within 30 days of the RLPA being requested to do so by the NRL in writing; or
where the breach is not capable of rectification,
the NRL may terminate this Agreement upon the giving of 30 days' notice in writing.
Despite clause 33.1, if the RLPA or the RLPA Officers or both do not comply with clause 4.4 of this Agreement, the Agreement will terminate with immediate effect.
where the breach is capable of rectification and that breach has not been rectified within 30 days of the NRL being requested to do so by the RLPA in writing; or
where the breach is not capable of rectification,
the RLPA may terminate this Agreement upon the giving of 30 days' notice in writing.
The RLPA agrees that neither it nor any of its members, nor agents acting on its behalf, will sue or support financially or administratively or voluntarily provide testimony or a statement or an affidavit in, any suit against the NRL or the NRL Partnership with respect to any claim relating to conduct by the NRL or the NRL Partnership permitted by the contractual arrangements giving effect to this Agreement or the current NRL Rules (including all Schedules and Guidelines to the NRL Rules).
For the avoidance of doubt, this clause does not prevent the RLPA or a member from taking action (not including industrial action) for a breach of this Agreement or from using the dispute settling procedure in this Agreement.
No party to this Agreement shall be entitled to take any industrial action during the term of this Agreement.
A party giving notice under this Agreement must do so in writing.
Without limiting the ways in which a written notice may be sent, a notice given in accordance with this clause 35 is taken to be received:
if hand delivered, on delivery;
if sent by prepaid post, 3 business days after the date of posting; or
if sent by facsimile, when the sender's facsimile system generates a message confirming successful transmission of the total number of pages of the notice unless, within 8 business hours after that transmission, the recipient informs the sender that it has not received the entire notice.
A party's failure or delay to exercise a power or right does not operate as a waiver of that power or right.
The exercise of a power or right does not preclude:
its future exercise; or
the exercise of any other power or right.
The variation or waiver of a provision of this Agreement, or a party's consent to a departure from a provision by another party, shall be ineffective unless in writing, executed by the parties.
Each party must pay its/his/her own costs and disbursements connected with the negotiation, preparation and execution of its/his/her rights under this Agreement.
This Agreement shall be personal to the parties and shall not be assigned by a party without the prior written consent of the other.
If anything in this Agreement is unenforceable, illegal or void then it shall be severed from this Agreement and the remaining provisions shall constitute the agreement of the parties.
The RLPA agrees that this Agreement is in full settlement of all existing claims made by the RLPA on the NRL.
There will be no extra claims by the RLPA for the duration of this Agreement.
This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement between the Parties in connection with its subject matter and supersedes all representations, previous agreements or understandings between the Parties in connection with its subject matter.
The mediator will be neutral and impartial.
The mediator will assist the parties to attempt to resolve the Grievance by helping them to:
systematically isolate the issues in dispute;
develop options for the resolution of these issues;
explore the usefulness of these options; and
meet their interests and needs.
The mediator may meet with the parties together or separately.
The mediator will not:
give legal or other professional advice to any party; or
impose a result on any party; or
make decisions for any party.
The mediator will not accept an appointment in relation to any proceedings concerning the Grievance.
Neither party will take action to cause the mediator to breach Clause 5.
The mediator must, prior to commencement of the mediation, disclose to the parties to the best of the mediator's knowledge any prior dealings with any of the parties as well as any interest in the Grievance.
If in the course of the mediation the mediator becomes aware of any circumstances that might reasonably be considered to affect the mediator's capacity to act impartially, the mediator must immediately inform the parties of these circumstances.
The parties will then decide whether the mediation will continue with that mediator or with a new mediator appointed by the parties.
The parties must co-operate with the mediator and each other during the mediation.
The parties must attend the mediation with authority to resolve the Grievance within parameters that can reasonably be anticipated.
At the mediation each party may have one or more other persons, including legally qualified persons, to assist and advise them.
Any information disclosed to a mediator in private is to be treated as confidential by the mediator unless the party making the disclosure states otherwise.
Such information is also to be regarded as 'without prejudice'.
The parties and the mediator will not disclose to anyone not involved in the mediation any information or document given to them during the mediation unless required by law to make such a disclosure.
The parties and the mediator agree that subject to Clauses 18 and 19, the following will be without prejudice and will not be disclosed in, or be the subject of a subpoena to give evidence or to produce documents, in any proceedings in respect of the Grievance:
Any settlement proposal whether made by a party or the mediator.
The willingness of a party to consider any such proposal.
Any statement made by a party or the mediator during the mediation.
Any information prepared for the mediation.
A party may terminate the mediation at any time after consultation with the mediator.
The mediator may terminate the mediator's involvement in the mediation if, after consultation with the parties, the mediator feels unable to assist the parties to achieve resolution of the Grievance.
If resolution is reached at the mediation, the terms of the resolution must be written down and signed by the parties before they leave the mediation.
Any party may enforce the terms of the agreed resolution by judicial proceedings.
For the purposes of Clause 18, any party may call evidence of the agreed resolution including evidence from the mediator and any other person engaged in the mediation.
The mediator will not be liable to a party for any act or omission in the performance of the mediator's obligations under this agreement unless the act or omission is fraudulent.
The parties together and separately indemnify the mediator against any claim for act or omission in the performance of the mediator's obligations under this agreement unless the act or omission is fraudulent.
The parties together and separately will be liable to the mediator for the mediator's fees described in Schedule 3.
The parties will share equally all the other costs of the mediation described in Schedule 3.
If the mediation does not result in an agreed resolution, the costs of the mediation will be costs in the cause, ie costs of the mediation (including those of any legal representatives  attending the mediation) will be treated as part of the overall costs in subsequent court proceedings.


The term of this Agreement commences upon execution by both parties being the date indicated at the front of this Agreement and continues until all obligations have been fulfilled under this Agreement, unless terminated earlier in accordance with this Agreement.
The Organisation must commence the Activity [choose the most appropriate no later than / on] [insert Activity Start Date] and must complete the Activity by [insert Activity Completion Date].
For the purpose of serving notices to either Party of this Agreement, a notice must be in writing and shall be treated as having been duly given and received:
when delivered (if left at that Party's address);
on the third Business Day after posting (if sent by pre-paid mail); or
on the Business Day of transmission (if given by facsimile and sent to the facsimile receiver number of that Party and no intimation having been received that the notice had not been received, whether that intimation comes from that Party or from the operation of facsimile machinery or otherwise).
For the purposes of this Agreement, the address of a Party is the address set out below or another address of which that Party may give notice in writing to the other Party:
The Organisation must carry out the Activity in accordance with the Activity Proposal and the terms and conditions of this Deed.
The Organisation must advise AusAID immediately of any difficulties or delays in implementation of the Activity.
The Organisation shall acknowledge in writing to AusAID receipt of the Funds immediately on its receipt.
The Funds and any interest earned or exchange rate gains must be used diligently and for the sole purpose of the Activity outlined in Schedule 1 of this Agreement.
Any interest earned or exchange rate gains made on the Funds must only be expended on the Activity.
The Organisation acknowledges that Funds provided by AusAID to the Organisation for this Activity does not entitle the Organisation to any other or further funding.
The Organisation shall acknowledge AusAID funding assistance provided under this Deed where appropriate and advise AusAID of matters relating to any publicity and media relations, prior to any publication or media release.
The Organisation must not represent itself and must ensure that its volunteers, employees, agents and sub-contractors participating in the Activity do not represent themselves as being employees, partners or agents of the Commonwealth of Australia.
The Organisation is responsible for the security of all of its personnel (including personnel either employed by the Organisation or engaged by the Organisation on a sub-contract basis or agents or volunteers of the Organisation engaged in the provision of the Activity) and for taking-out and maintaining all appropriate insurances.
The Organisation must not assign its interest in this Agreement without first obtaining the consent in writing of AusAID.
No delay, neglect or forbearance by either Party in enforcing against the other any term or condition of this Agreement shall be deemed to be a waiver or in any way prejudice any right of that Party.
This Agreement is governed by, and is to be construed in accordance with, the law of the Australian Capital Territory and the Parties submit to the exclusive jurisdiction of the courts of the Australian Capital Territory and any court hearing appeals from those courts.
AusAID or the Organisation may propose amendments to this Agreement at any time for the purpose of improving the delivery of the Activity, the efficiency, cost-effectiveness and development impact of the Activity.
Changes to this Agreement (including to Schedule 1 and any annexes) shall only be effected if agreed in writing and signed by both Parties in the form of a Deed of Amendment.
The Organisation must not use the Funds to acquire any asset, apart from those detailed in the Activity Proposal without obtaining AusAID's prior written approval.
Subject to the requirements of this clause, the Organisation shall own the assets acquired with the Funds unless specified otherwise in the Activity Proposal.
If the Funds are being used to procure goods, the Organisation must ensure in its procurement of the goods that:
the goods to be procured are of a satisfactory quality;
the goods shall be delivered in good order and condition and in accordance with the Activity timetable;
the price paid for goods procured represents value for money;
there is open and effective competition in the purchasing process to the extent practicable; and
a professional approach is reflected in the purchasing process including ethical behaviour and fair dealing.
If the Funds are being used to procure goods, the Organisation must maintain a Register of Activity Assets.
The Register shall record non-consumable items funded under this Agreement or supplied by AusAID to the Activity which have a value of AUD1,000 (or equivalent) or more.
In addition non-consumable items of a portable and attractive nature with a value of less than AUD1,000 (or equivalent) shall also be recorded.
The Register shall show date of receipt of the asset at the Activity site, the cost, the purchase/payment document date and reference number, a description and identification number, and the location of the asset.
Disposal or write-off of AusAID funded or provided assets shall be as agreed in writing by AusAID.
The Register and other relevant documents such as import papers and manufacturers' warranties relating to the assets shall be available for audit as required by AusAID.
The Register shall be reconciled with Activity assets at least every twelve months and the results of that reconciliation included in the Annual Reports required in clause titled 'Reports' in this agreement.
The Organisation must, if required by AusAID, permit AusAID to monitor and/or evaluate the Activity and/or use of the Funds.
AusAID shall give the Organisation at least two (2) weeks notice of its intentions prior to commencing such a review.
In that event, the Organisation must cooperate fully with any request for assistance pursuant to any such study.
The Organisation must at all times indemnify AusAID, its employees, agents and contractors (except the Organisation) ("those indemnified") from and against any loss or liability whatsoever suffered by those indemnified or arising from any claim, suit, demand, action or proceeding by any person against any of those indemnified where such loss or liability was caused or contributed to in any way by any wilfully wrongful, unlawful or negligent act or omission of the Organisation, or any of the Organisation's personnel in connection with this Agreement.
The Organisation agrees that AusAID may enforce the indemnity in favour of the persons specified in Clause 8.1 above for the benefit of each of such persons in the name of AusAID or of such persons.
The indemnity in this Clause 8 is reduced to the extent that the loss or liability is directly caused by AusAID, its employees, agents or contractors (except the Organisation), as substantiated by the Organisation.
This indemnity shall survive termination or expiration of this Agreement.
The title to all intellectual property rights in or in relation to Agreement Material created during the course of the Activity shall vest in AusAID upon its creation.
AusAID shall grant to the Organisation a world-wide, revocable, non-exclusive, royalty-free licence to use the material.
Clause 9.1 does not affect the ownership of intellectual property in any Prior Material incorporated into the Agreement Material, but the Organisation grants to AusAID a permanent, irrevocable, royalty-free worldwide, non-exclusive licence to use, reproduce, adapt and otherwise exploit such Prior Material in conjunction with the Agreement Material.
The licence granted under this Clause 9.2 includes the right of AusAID to sub-licence any of its employees, agents or contractors to use, reproduce, adapt and otherwise exploit the Prior Material incorporated into the Agreement Material for the purposes of performing functions, responsibilities, activities or services for, or on behalf of, AusAID.
The Organisation and its personnel must have regard to and comply with, relevant and applicable laws, guidelines, regulations and policies, including those in Australia and in the Partner Country.
A list, as amended from time to time, of Australian laws and guidelines that may apply to the delivery of developmental aid to foreign countries can be found on the AusAID website: http://www.ausaid.gov.au/business/contracting.cfm.
This list is not exhaustive and is provided for information only.
The provision of this list does not relieve the Organisation from complying with the obligations contained in this clause headed 'Compliance with Laws, Guidelines and Policies'.
The Organisation must comply with:
AusAID's Child protection policy.
(http://www.ausaid.gov.au/publications/pubs.cfm?Type=PubPolicyDocuments) and particularly the child protection compliance standards at Attachment 1 to the policy.
AusAID may audit the Organisation's compliance with AusAID's Child protection policy and child protection compliance standards.
The Organisation must participate cooperatively in any reviews conducted by AusAID;
The strategy 'Development for All: Towards a Disability-Inclusive Australian Aid Program 2009-2014' (http://www.ausaid.gov.au/publications/pdf/FINAL%20AusAID_Disability%20for%20All.pdf), and in particular the strategy's six guiding principles.
The Organisation must use its best endeavours to ensure:
that individuals or organisations involved in implementing the Activity are in no way linked, directly or indirectly, to organisations and individuals associated with terrorism; and 
that Funds provided under this Agreement are not used in any way to provide direct or indirect support or resources to organisations and individuals associated with terrorism.
If, during the course of this Agreement, the Organisation discovers any link whatsoever with any organisation or individual listed on a Relevant List it must inform AusAID immediately.
If, during the course of this Agreement, the Organisation is listed on a World Bank List or Similar List it must inform AusAID immediately.
The Organisation agrees that: 
The Organisation and its employees, agents, representatives or its subcontractors must not engage in any Fraudulent Activity.
The Organisation is responsible for preventing and detecting Fraud.
The Organisation must report in writing within five (5) working days to AusAID any detected, suspected, or attempted Fraudulent Activity involving the Activity.
AusAID may direct the Organisation to investigate the alleged Fraud and the Organisation must undertake an investigation at the Organisation's cost and in accordance with any directions or standards required by AusAID.
Following the conclusion of any investigation which identifies acts of a Fraudulent nature, the Organisation shall:
make every effort to recover any AusAID Funds, the subject of Fraudulent Activity;
refer the matter to the relevant police or other authorities responsible for prosecution of Fraudulent Activity; and 
be liable for the repayment of any Funds amounts misappropriated by the Organisation, its agents, representatives or subcontractors.
The obligations of the Organisation under paragraphs (b) and (c) above shall survive the expiration of this Agreement.
The Organisation warrants that the Organisation shall not make or cause to be made, nor shall the Organisation receive or seek to receive, any offer, gift or payment, consideration or benefit of any kind, which would or could be construed as an illegal or corrupt practice, either directly or indirectly to any party, as an inducement or reward in relation to the execution of this Agreement.
In addition, the Organisation shall not bribe public officials and shall ensure that its delivery organisations comply with this provision.
Any breach of this clause shall be grounds for immediate termination of this Agreement by notice from AusAID.
If the Organisation:
becomes, or AusAID considers there is a reasonable prospect of the Organisation becoming bankrupt, insolvent, deregistered or no longer able to undertake the Activity to a standard acceptable to AusAID; 
makes an assignment of its estate for the benefit of creditors or enters into any arrangement or composition with its creditors;
fails to commence, or in the opinion of AusAID, fails to make satisfactory progress in carrying out the Activity and such failure has not been remedied within the time specified in a written request from AusAID to remedy the failure; 
assigns its interest in this Agreement without the consent in writing of AusAID; 
is, during the term of this Agreement, listed on a World Bank List, Relevant List or Similar List; or
breaches any term of this Agreement and such breach has not been remedied within the time stipulated in a written request notice from AusAID to remedy the breach;
then in every such case AusAID shall be entitled to terminate this Agreement forthwith but without prejudice to any of its other rights.
In addition, either Party may terminate this Agreement by giving to the other a notice to terminate in writing stating the reasons for termination.
AusAID may terminate this Agreement immediately by notice in writing to the Organisation if the Organisation breaches any of its obligations under Clause 10.
In the event of any termination, the Organisation must provide an Independently Audited statement of expenditure of the Funds within thirty (30) days of the date of the notice to terminate, signed by the head of the Organisation, and return any uncommitted unspent Funds to AusAID.
In the event that a notice to terminate is given by either Party the Organisation must:
immediately and forthwith do everything possible to prevent and mitigate all losses, costs and expenses arising in consequence of the termination of this Agreement and shall in a prompt and orderly manner cease expenditure of any uncommitted Funds for the Activity; and
refund any uncommitted part of any tranche or Funds already paid by AusAID, together with any uncommitted or unspent interest, within thirty (30) days of the date of the notice to terminate.
In the event that a notice to terminate is given by either party AusAID shall not be liable to pay compensation in an amount which, in addition to any amounts paid or due or becoming due to the Organisation under this Agreement, together would exceed the amount of the total financial limitation of this Agreement, as specified in clause headed 'Funds and Payment'.
The bank account used by the Organisation must be in the name of the Organisation and must not be a personal bank account.
The Organisation must maintain a sound administrative and financial system capable of verifying all statements of acquittal.
In addition, the Organisation must:
keep proper and detailed accounts, records and assets registers along with adequate Activity management records providing clear audit trails in relation to expenditure under this Agreement;
afford adequate facilities for audit and inspection of the financial records referred to in this Agreement by AusAID and its authorised representatives at all reasonable times and allow copies and extracts to be taken; 
the accounts and records must be held by the Organisation for the term of this Agreement and for a period of seven (7) years from the date of expiry or termination of this Agreement; 
if requested by AusAID, provide an acquittal, certified by the senior financial officer or the head of the Organisation, of Funds spent to date against the budget in the Activity Proposal; and
if reasonably requested by AusAID, provide an Independently Audited statement of Activity expenditure by an auditor nominated by AusAID at no cost to AusAID.
AusAID may disclose matters relating to this Agreement, including this Agreement, and other relevant information, except where such information may breach the Privacy Act 1988 (Cth), to Commonwealth governmental departments and agencies, Commonwealth Ministers and Parliamentary Secretaries, and to the Commonwealth Parliament, including responding to requests for information from Parliamentary committees or inquiries.
This clause shall survive termination or expiration of this Agreement

Within thirty (30) days of completion of the Activity the Organisation shall submit a final report which provides a brief outline of the Activity and in more detail covers key outcomes compared with objectives, development impact, sustainability and lessons learned.
Attached to this report will be a statement acquitting all Funds ('final Funds acquittal').
The statement must acquit the Funds against the budget referred to in the Activity Proposal and must be signed by the senior financial officer or the head of the Organisation, indicating that the Funds have been spent in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.
Any unspent Funds or interest must be repaid to AusAID with the final report and final Funds acquittal.
The Funds acquittal must include details of any interest earned on the Funds.
The final Funds acquittal acquitting all Funds shall be subject to the internal and external auditing procedures laid down in the rules and regulations applicable to the Organisation and must also be Independently Audited and certified.
The cost of an independent external audit required by this clause may be payable from the Funds.
The final report and attached statement acquitting all Funds should be sent to: 
Manager, Community Engagement, NGOs and Community Engagement section
Australian Agency for International Development
GPO Box 887
CANBERRA  ACT  2601  AUSTRALIA


The Recipient will not (without the prior consent of the Discloser) disclose the Confidential Information to any person other than to those persons referred to in paragraph 3 below, nor will the Recipient use the Confidential Information for any purpose other than to carry out activities relevant to the Approved Purpose.
The Recipient will limit the disclosure of the Confidential Information to those of its employees, directors and advisers who require it and then only to the extent necessary to carry out the activities relevant to the Approved Purpose.
The Recipient will ensure that each and every person to whom disclosure is made under paragraph 3 above is made aware of the provisions of this Agreement.
The Recipient is responsible for ensuring that each such person keeps the Confidential Information confidential and only uses the Confidential Information in the manner expressly permitted by this Agreement.
The Recipient agrees that all Confidential Information provided by the Discloser to the Recipient will be safely and securely stored when not in use and will remain the exclusive property of the Discloser and all originals and copies thereof will be returned to the Discloser or destroyed at its request.
This clause will not require the Recipient to destroy or return copies of Confidential Information that has been included in submissions to the Recipient's board of directors.
It is the purpose of this agreement to protect a Party's property and equitable rights in the Confidential Information, and it is understood that the obligations provided for in this Agreement will survive from the date of execution of this Agreement until five years from the later of: -
The conclusion of any negotiations between the Parties concerning the Approved Purpose; and

The Recipient must return to the Discloser all of the Discloser's Confidential Information immediately upon:
a request to that effect being made by the Discloser; or
the Recipient using the Confidential Information for purposes other than those allowed under this Agreement,
and, thereupon, the Recipient must forthwith destroy or procure the destruction of all documents recording or making reference to the Discloser's Confidential Information.
The Recipient may disclose Confidential Information to the extent that it is required to be disclosed by law, by court order or by lawful requirement of any government or government body, authority or agency having authority over the Recipient but the Recipient must prior to any disclosure, give written notice to the Discloser of the requirements.
The Recipient must, after consultation with the Discloser, use its best endeavours to delay or withhold disclosure to the extent that it is lawfully able to do so and, to the maximum extent practicable, and as far as possible in accordance with the directions of the Discloser, minimise the disclosure and make disclosure on terms which will preserve the confidentiality of the Confidential Information including (without limitation), informing the person to whom disclosure is made of the confidential nature of the Confidential Information disclosed.
The Recipient agrees that damages are not an adequate or sufficient remedy with respect to disclosure or use of Confidential Information in breach of this Agreement and that, in addition to all other rights, powers and remedies, the Discloser is entitled to specific performance or injunctive relief (as appropriate) in respect of or to prevent any such breach.
For the purposes of this Agreement, information will not be regarded as being in the public domain by reason only of the fact that some portion of the information is public, or that information is publicly available which, together with other information, could be used to produce the Confidential Information.

This Agreement shall commence on the [Insert Date] [the Start Date] and shall end on 30 November 2009 [the End Date] unless extended, varied or terminated in accordance with clauses 15 [Default] and 17 [Variation].
This Services Agreement shall supersede any previous Services Agreement as set out in Clause 16.1 [Entire agreement and status].
The contractor grants to DVA an option to extend this Agreement by a further period of up to three (3) years or three (3) periods of one (1) year each.
DVA may exercise this option by giving notice in writing to the contractor no later than 30 days prior to the respective end date.
Except as provided for in clause 15 [Default], either party may terminate this Agreement by providing the other party with three (3) months notice in writing.
The Agreement will terminate three (3) months after receipt by the other party of such notice.
No compensation shall be payable by either party to the other where the Agreement is terminated in accordance with Part A(b)(4) above.
Part B.
Who is the contractor?
All service delivery areas through which services are to be provided under this Agreement must be listed and otherwise described in Attachment '2'.
The contractor may only provide services, for the purpose of this Agreement, in the service delivery area/s listed in Attachment '2'.
For the purposes of this Agreement, the contractor must not provide services in any other service delivery area/s to that listed in Attachment '2'.
DVA may offer additional service delivery area/s via a contract variation to the contractor at any time after taking into consideration the relevant criteria listed in section 3 of the Request for Tender VHC 02/06.
In addition to clause 17.2, the contractor must not assign or transfer any of its legal rights and obligations under this Agreement in relation to any site without prior consent in writing from DVA which may or may not be withheld.
On receipt of written consent from DVA to either assign or transfer any of its legal rights and obligations under this Agreement, the contractor must continue to provide services consistent with this Agreement up to the date of assignment or transfer unless otherwise directed by DVA.
DVA reserves the right to reduce the scope of any of the services provided by the contractor, including reducing the number of service delivery areas from which the contractor delivers any or part of the services, at any time by written notice.
Upon being given such notice, the contractor agrees, consistent with clause 14.2, to cease relevant aspects of the services at the date specified in the notice and to continue with all aspects of the services not affected by the notice

The contractor must notify DVA of any changes to its capacity to deliver any of the services outlined in the Agreement, within fourteen (14) working days of any such change.
Where the legal entity for the Contractor is different to the supplier/s, then option 1 (see below) must be selected and the table at Attachment 4 must be completed with the details of each supplier.
This is essential for ensuring a cross reference between the contract and service delivery.
Option 2 will need to be deleted.
If the legal entity is the same for both the contractor and the supplier then delete option 1 and insert 'Not Applicable' on Attachment 4, and insert option 2.
Please note: Where a legal entity has a trading name under which they supply the services, you will not need to complete the table at Attachment 4 but should ensure the trading name being used is detailed in Part B(a) under 'trading name'.
The Contractor will use the supplier/s detailed in Attachment 4 for delivery of the services.
The Contractor will be the supplier under this Agreement.
The Contractor shall not be discharged from any of its obligations or liabilities arising under this Agreement on entering into any agreement/arrangement with any supplier.
The contractor shall ensure that all services delivered under this Agreement are provided by appropriately qualified personnel, as defined in the relevant State or Territory legislation, or workers holding the necessary qualifications and as otherwise set out in the Guidelines (Attachment '1').
Consistent with section 5 Assessment and Coordination in the Guidelines (Attachment '1'), the contractor shall ensure that all personnel must:
work within the appropriate national standards;
consistent with Part (B)(d)(1) above of this Agreement, hold the appropriate qualifications and have the appropriate experience; and
deliver the services at a standard consistent with their qualifications and experience.
The contractor may subcontract all or part of the VHC services delivered under this Agreement.
The following information must be provided to DVA by the contractor if the contractor proposes to use any subcontractors to provide all or any part of the services under this Agreement that are a company, partnership, trust, statutory body or other legal entity other than an individual.
The contractor is not required to provide the following information in relation to any subcontractor that will deliver the services as an individual, unless otherwise requested by DVA.
The contractor must provide any additional information in relation to any subcontracting agreement or other arrangement on request from DVA.
For the purposes of this Agreement, the contractor agrees to notify DVA within fourteen (14) days of any change to an existing subcontracting agreement or other arrangement or on entering into any additional subcontracting agreement or other arrangement with a company, partnership, trust, statutory body or other legal entity.
In addition, the contractor will provide information in relation to the subcontracting agreement or other arrangement in accordance with this Part B(e).
For the purposes of this Agreement, the contractor shall ensure that all services provided under any subcontracting agreement or other arrangement are delivered by persons who have the appropriate qualifications and experience as set out in Part B[d] of this Agreement.
The contractor agrees that it shall not be discharged from any of its obligations or liabilities arising under this Agreement on entering into any subcontract agreement or other arrangement for all or any parts of the services.
The Contractor will perform the tasks outlined in this Part D(a) in the VHC region/s listed in Attachment '2' and consistent with Part B(b) of this Agreement.
The Contractor will undertake regional assessment and coordination functions for the DVA Veterans' Home Care Program.
Assessment and coordination functions will include, but are  not limited to the following:
determine eligibility and assess the needs of individual Entitled Persons for basic home care services;
deliver high quality and timely (assessment completed with 5 working days of receiving referral) assessments (using the standard online assessment instrument nominated by the Department), reviews and care coordination;
ensure that the assessment and coordination functions are delivered by suitably qualified Personnel (including subcontractors) with appropriate skills and experience as outlined in section 5 [The Role of the Regional Assessment and Coordination Agency] of the Guidelines (Attachment '1');
develop and implement a coordinated package of care, including appropriate referrals targeting the needs of individual Entitled Persons; 
ensure that Service Plans are current at all times and that reviews are conducted prior to the expiry date of the Service Plan.
Make contact with Entitled Person clients on a 6-monthly basis as part of the assessment review process;
have  appropriate quality assurance systems;
participate with DVA in performance monitoring and program evaluation;
manage resource allocation through notional budget allocations at the regional level;
communicate with persons delivering home care services (that is, personal care, domestic assistance, home and garden maintenance and respite care) to Entitled Persons, including authorising the delivery of those services;
if more than one person delivers home care services in a particular region, ensure  an equitable allocation of work (allowing for Entitled Person preferences and geographical considerations);
supply appropriate data to DVA as required, including entering full details of assessment, assessment reviews, approved service provision and referral onto the Department's VHC system; 
help to facilitate an integrated approach to meeting some of the primary care needs of Entitled Persons, including referral to and building upon other Australian Government  health care and community services and HACC services not included under VHC (eg delivered meals) where appropriate; and
participate  in training for VHC assessors and coordinators.
The Contractor will perform the tasks in accordance with this Agreement, including the Guidelines (Attachment '1') and all other Attachments.
Consistent with Part J(b)(2), the Guidelines (Attachment '1') may be amended from time to time by DVA.
In addition to any other relevant terms and conditions of this Agreement, the contractor agrees that DVA may, at its sole discretion, transfer an Entitled Person to another contractor if DVA considers that the Entitled Person's health and welfare is at risk or on any other reasonable grounds.
On receiving notification from DVA consistent with Part D(a)(5) above, the contractor shall act in accordance with any reasonable direction from DVA, and shall do all things necessary to ensure a smooth and well-ordered transfer.
The contractor agrees to comply with the requirements set out in the Guidelines (Attachment '1') with regard to deliverables, including use of the DVA VHC system.
The contractor agrees to comply with all the performance monitoring requirements set out in Section 10 Accountability and Standards of the Guidelines (Attachment '1').
DVA shall monitor the performance of the contractor under this Agreement (particularly in relation to the tasks described in Part D(a) [The services] and the deliverables required under Part D(b) [The deliverables]) and determine in its absolute discretion whether such performance has been satisfactory.
If DVA decides that the contractor's performance is unsatisfactory, then the Commonwealth may terminate this Agreement in accordance with clause 15.4 [Specified Default].
The parties will communicate via telephone, in writing or meet on a regular basis (as agreed by the parties but at least every six months) to discuss the progress of the Agreement including ways to improve delivery of the services.
All fees are/will be exclusive of GST.
Fees for each Entitled Person Client will be adjusted on 1 January annually in line with the Health and Community Care Sector Wage Cost Index.
The Health and Community Care Sector Wage Cost Index used to determine the above, will be the index relevant at the end of each financial year.
Fees may also be amended from time to time outside of indexation arrangements.
Any change to the fees will be at the sole discretion of DVA.
For the purposes of this Agreement an "Entitled Person Client" is one with a complete assessment and complete approval (including those where the approval is for no services) registered in the Department's VHC system by the Contractor.
The fee payable for each Entitled Person Client is GST exclusive and  inclusive of all costs of complying with this Agreement and includes:
assessment and reassessment; 
reporting requirements;
development and distribution  of a care plan;
development and distribution of a Service Plan;
coordination, including referral to those delivering home care services such as personal care;
managing resource allocation;
appropriate follow-up with the Entitled Person or family member;
all overseas taxes and charges;
all Australian (Federal, State and Local Government) taxes and charges that are applicable;
equipment costs; and
transport, quality assurance, staff developments and other business processes necessary to deliver the Services.
The payments of all fees will be made consistent with Part E(c)[Claim for payment] and clause 3 of this Agreement.
The Contractor will be paid at least monthly based on the number of Entitled Persons with assessments and approvals completed and registered in the Department's VHC system.
Only one completed assessment and approval per Entitled Person per year will be paid for, regardless of the number of assessments and/or amended approvals, or whether an Person Client transfers from region to region, or whether the Contractor for a region changes.
A payment, in line with Part E(a) per Entitled Person Client per annum will be paid following the initial client assessment and registration of a complete approval in the Department's VHC system.
This registration will occur as the result, of a completed assessment and approval, after their details have been entered onto the VHC system by the Contractor.
Assessments without a completed approval will not be paid for.
On the 12 month anniversary of the Entitled Person Client entering  VHC, the Contractor will also receive anniversary payments in line with the Guidelines (Attachment '1') 7.1.1.1 Anniversary Payments, that is:

An anniversary payment will be generated on the anniversary date:
where there is an approval end date in the VHC system at or beyond the anniversary date, and an approval has been completed within four months prior to the anniversary date, except in the case of those Entitled Persons who were assessed and approved for no services; or
where the criteria above are not met on the anniversary date, the anniversary payment will be generated after the next completed approval by the Contractor.
This situation also applies where the Entitled Person has been approved for no services.
The anniversary payment will be paid at the rate applicable on the anniversary date.
In the situation where the assessment agency in a region changes, then the assessment agency that is 'active' in the region on the day that the anniversary  assessment becomes eligible to be paid, will receive the anniversary payment.
At least once a month the Department's VHC system will calculate how many approvals have been completed by the Contractor in the previous payment period (or how many anniversary  payments fall in the previous month) meet the payment criteria.
All accounts will be then processed using the existing Department's payment system to ensure prompt and accurate results.
The Contractor will be paid at least once a month, in the second week of the month for assessments completed in the previous month, except in circumstances where technical difficulties occur.
The Contractor will be issued with a monthly report listing assessments paid for.
DVA will not provide any assistance to the contractor in addition to that specified elsewhere in the Agreement.
DVA will take reasonable steps to ensure the Contractor has access to all training material, guidelines and administrative procedures necessary to implement and complete the Services.
If the parties do not extend or re-negotiate this Agreement in accordance with Part A(b) [Duration of agreement], the Contractor agrees to do all things necessary to ensure a smooth and well ordered hand-over to any person who takes over the provision of the Services as described in Part D(a) [The services].
The Contractor warrants that it has the necessary expertise, experience, capacity and facilities required to perform its obligations and responsibilities in relation to the Services at the highest standard of industry practice.
The Contractor must also provide the Services in accordance with the VHC Standards contained in the Guidelines (Attachment '1').
The contractor will comply with DVA policy and procedures regarding occupational health and safety.
If the contractor or its personnel will have access to Security Classified Information, the contractor agrees to store, handle and process such information in accordance with the minimum security standards set out in the specified sections of the DVA Protective Security Manual, which will be provided to the contractor where required.
The Contractor warrants that:
it has IT systems that enable full and non-disruptive connectivity to DVA's IT systems, eg, appropriate firewall and internet protocols, and
its browser is supported by the Vendor, meets DVA's encryption level standards and is compatible with current Certifying Authorities eg.
Verisign.
The Contractor acknowledges:
that DVA may from time to time upgrade its IT systems to reflect industry changes and changes required by Australian Government; 
that if such changes require an upgraded Internet browser software version, the Contractor agrees to immediately upgrade its browser when requested to do so by DVA;  
that DVA will provide reasonable notice of such changes, and 
that due to systems maintenance and other requirements, including factors outside the control of DVA, DVA is unable to guarantee access to its systems at all times.
DVA shall make all effort possible to maintain non-disruptive connectivity to the VHC System.
All Contractor Personnel seeking access to DVA's information technology system (including DVA's electronic payment system) must complete the VHC System Access Request Form and Confidentiality Deed at Attachment 3.
The contractor agrees to conduct all its activities under this Agreement in a manner consistent with DVA's Service Charter (as amended from time to time).
DVA's Service Charter can be accessed online at www.dva.gov.au/media/aboutus/charter/index.htm

The contractor agrees to conduct all its activities under this Agreement in a manner consistent with the Australian Public Service (APS) Values (Public Service Act 1999, s. 10) which may be accessed online at www.apsc/gov.au/values/index.html 
 
The contractor agrees to conduct all its activities under this Agreement in a manner consistent with the Australian Public Service (APS) Code of Conduct (Public Service Act 1999, s. 13) (as amended from time to time).
The APS Code of Conduct may be accessed online at www.apsc.gov.au/conduct/index.html  

If a dispute is not resolved under clause 7.1 [Internal processes] then, as stated in clause 7.2 [External processes], the parties agree to act in good faith to endeavour to resolve the dispute using external informal dispute resolution techniques, such as mediation, expert evaluation or determination.
In particular, the parties will act in good faith to endeavour to agree within 10 days (or a period agreed between them in writing, depending on the issue in dispute) about:

the dispute resolution technique and procedures to be adopted;
the timetable for all steps in those procedures; and
the selection and payment of the independent person required for the agreed technique.
DVA will take reasonable steps to ensure that the Contractor has access to all DVA Material necessary and relevant in the performance of the Services, including access to the DVA's system databases as appropriate.
The primary DVA records are the online records in the DVA system.
Copies of DVA records created by the contractor are to be stored and, when no longer required, destroyed in accordance with H(a)(5) and 10.2(d).
Notwithstanding any other terms or conditions in this Agreement, other care documentation developed by the contractor for an Entitled Person remains the property of the contractor.
The contractor must make the care documentation available to DVA, or any person or organisation authorised by DVA, and provide reasonable access to the documentation upon request.
The contractor must retain and securely store the care documentation for an Entitled Person for the period of the contract in accordance with the Privacy Act 1988.
Care documentation containing veteran personal information must be destroyed in accordance with the Privacy Act 1988 at the termination of the contract or when no longer required by the contractor.
The parties agree that the terms and conditions forming this Agreement are not confidential.
The contractor must maintain full levels of insurance cover relevant to the provision of VHC services to properly protect its and DVA's interests for the services.
The contractor will also be expected to comply with all relevant insurance requirements, including conducting and improving relevant risk management practices and incident notification processes.
Specifically, the contractor warrants that in the performance of the services, it has, and will maintain:

public risk/liability insurance for not less than $10,000,000 per claim covering liability owed to another person who suffers loss or damage by reason of the contractor's business activities;
professional indemnity type insurance for not less than $5,000,000 per claim covering acts or omissions of the contractor in the exercise of its trade or profession that give rise to liability (eg, negligence); and
workers' compensation insurance as required by State/Territory law, sufficient for any place that its relevant personnel are involved with this Agreement or, if the contractor is an individual, appropriate disability income insurance for illness and injury.
The contractor further warrants that any subcontractor used in the performance of the services has, and will maintain, insurance at the levels consistent with I(a)(2).
The contractor agrees to provide copies of certificate/s of currency or the relevant policy to the delegate upon request, including details of limits on cover.
The parties agree that no matters in addition to those specified elsewhere in the Agreement and any attachment need specific management.
This Agreement forms a standing offer under which specific contract for services (or supplies) may be accepted by DVA, through the following process.
An Entitled Person, their representative or health professional will contact the Contractor to request that an Entitled Person be recorded as a VHC client for that region and have services arranged by the Contractor.
The Contractor shall undertake an assessment of the Entitled Person and  transfer information about that Entitled Person's service usage into the Department's VHC system.
Once an assessment is complete then a discrete contract has been formed between DVA and the Contractor.
Each discrete contract shall be subject to and incorporate the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
DVA shall not be liable for any work which the ordering officer has not requested in writing through the issue of a Service Plan.
DVA does not bind itself to any exclusive arrangement, to order any specific quantities of the Services or to engage any quantity at all, but reserves the right to engage such quantity of the Services as may be required during the period of this Agreement, according to the requirements of DVA.
DVA may, at its absolute discretion, obtain Services similar to those offered by the Contractor from third parties, and nothing in this Agreement shall give rise to any right of the Contractor to exclusively provide Services of the kind described in Part D(a) [What Services are needed - and when?].
With regard to amendments to this Schedule, the List of Service  Delivery Area and Sites (Attachment '2'), the Care System Request and Confidentiality Deed (Attachment'3') and the Clauses 1 to 18 (inclusive) of this Agreement, the parties agree that clauses 16 and 17 apply sufficiently.
With regard to the Guidelines (Attachment '1'), the parties agree that the Guidelines (Attachment '1') may be amended from time to time by DVA.
DVA undertakes to use its best endeavours to notify the contractor of amendments to the Guidelines (Attachment '1') in advance of those amendments taking effect.
If a contractor has an objection to any amendments made to the Guidelines (Attachment '1'), it must raise the objection with the delegate before delivering services or making any claim for payment.
The parties agree to the purpose and expected duration of this Agreement as stated in Part A [Agreement's purpose and period].
The contractor agrees to:
perform the services following the timing agreed in Part D(a) [Services and timing], taking into account this Agreement's purpose as stated in Part AAgreement's purpose]; 
provide Contract Material and Intellectual Property Rights, appropriate for the services, including deliverables agreed in Part D(b) [Deliverables]; and
communicate with DVA and assist with performance-monitoring requirements, including as agreed in Part D(c) [Communication and monitoring].
The contractor agrees to:

conduct implementation, disengagement and skills transfer tasks, including as set out in Part G(a) [Implementation and disengagement] of this Agreement; 
meet or exceed relevant quality, security or safety standards, including as agreed in Part G(b) [Quality, security and safety]; and
meet relevant government requirements, including as agreed in Part G(c) [Public sector issues].
The contractor agrees to:
ensure that the services are performed properly and completely, including in a manner consistent with the purpose stated in Part A(a) [Purpose];
conduct itself with due care, skill and diligence, including exercising decorum and courtesy when dealing with any person, or the property of any person;
meet obligations arising under any Law, including Anti-Discrimination Laws; and
comply with any Law (or Australian Government policy) applicable to the use of or conduct at any premises, including
occupational health and safety rules (eg, a smoke-free workplace), and
procedures referred to in Part G(b) [Quality  and safety], or as notified by the Delegate.
DVA relies on the contractor performing to high standards and (unless the Delegate states otherwise in writing) the contractor agrees that it bears ultimate responsibility for the provision of the services, undiminished by other factors, including:

the appropriateness of the efforts of any of its personnel;
the existence of a dispute or dispute resolution process, including about the exercise of any DVA discretion and any conditions imposed; or
activities occurring under clause 17.2 [Novation].
At any relevant end date, including arising under clause 14 [Compensated reduction], clause 15 [Default] or clause 17.2 [Novation] the contractor agrees:

to continue to maintain and protect DVA Material and Contract Material, until dealt with under clause 10.4 [Appropriate use of material];
to take all steps to minimise Loss; and
to conduct transition tasks, as agreed under clause 1.4(a) [Specific standards].
The contractor agrees to ensure that any personnel (including any specified in Part B(c) [Specified personnel]):

are appropriately qualified, and of a fit and proper nature, to perform the services; 
are Australian citizens or if not Australian citizens are not Illegal Workers;
consent to DVA, or the contractor where so requested by DVA,  conducting appropriate security or other police checks/clearances, and provide any undertakings sought under clause 9.12 [Undertakings];
conduct the services according to this Agreement;
promptly, through the contractor, notify DVA if they cannot meet any of their contributions to the contractor's obligations under this Agreement; and

will have access only to such official information as is required for the personnel to perform their duties.
The contractor agrees:

that DVA may require it to promptly remove personnel (including any specified under clause 2.1) from any aspect of the services;
if requested, to promptly nominate potential replacement personnel; and
if it cannot provide personnel acceptable to the Delegate, DVA may rely on clause 15.4 [Specified default].
The contractor agrees to:

notify DVA no later than fourteen (14) days after entering into a subcontracting agreement or other arrangement for all or part of the services with a company, partnership, trust, statutory body or other legal entity that is not an individual, and to provide information on the subcontracting agreement or other arrangement in relation to this Agreement in accordance with Part B(d) [Subcontractors];
ensure the continuing suitability of subcontractors (including compliance with Law generally, Anti-Discrimination Laws, and relevant security requirements) as set out in Part G(b) [Quality and safety];
ensure that no subcontract restricts DVA's Legal Rights;
ensure that all contracts with subcontractors contain functionally equivalent provisions to this Agreement to the extent that those provisions are capable of applying to the subcontract;
inform subcontractors about obligations arising under this Agreement; and
properly pay or reward subcontractors under any relevant subcontract, including accounting properly for all tax-related issues.
DVA agrees to:

upon receiving an appropriate and correct claim for payment, pay fees to the contractor as agreed in Part E(a) [Fees] and Part E(b) [Expenses]; and
provide reasonable assistance agreed in Part F [DVA assistance].
To obtain payment, the contractor agrees to follow the appropriate claiming processes set out in section 7 (Account Payment Arrangements) of the Guidelines (Attachment '1') when claiming payment for any services provided to an Entitled Person under this Agreement.
Acknowledging that both parties are registered for GST, if applicable, at the time of executing this Agreement, the parties agree that DVA will issue recipient created tax invoices (RCTIs) or, where applicable, recipient created adjustment notes (RCANs), to the contractor in accordance with the A New Tax System (Goods and Services Tax) Act 1999 (GST Act) and the A New Tax System (Goods and Services Tax) Act 1999 Classes of Recipient Created Tax Invoice Determination (No.1) 2000 in relation to goods or services that are taxable supplies under the GST Act.
The contractor must not issue tax invoices or adjustment notes in respect of taxable supplies covered by an RCTI or RCAN respectively.
An RCTI or RCAN may be issued by DVA in electronic format.
This RCTI Agreement shall continue in existence for the term of this Agreement
or until either party terminates this RCTI Agreement by notice in writing,
whichever is the later.
The contractor acknowledges that unless it provides DVA with its Australian Business Number, DVA may need to withhold tax from payments.
If a Variation to a Tax affects this Agreement, either party may seek, by written notice, a review of fees, reimbursements or assistance.
If the review will potentially increase payments, the contractor agrees to substantiate to the Delegate's satisfaction that:

any increases are attributable to the Variation; and
the contractor took all measures to minimise the effect of the Variation.
DVA may defer any payment until the contractor has completed, to the Delegate's reasonable satisfaction, a relevant aspect of the services, or prepared an appropriate claim, relating to the payment.
The contractor agrees that DVA may:
check and rectify discrepancies in any payments or assistance;
offset any overpayment against future payments; and
recover, as a debt, any money owing to DVA (plus reasonable interest), including any outstanding prepayment amount at a relevant end date.
The parties may agree to consult regarding any price review.
The contractor acknowledges that any prepayments will be subject to DVA's sole discretion.
The contractor agrees to notify DVA within 21 days of any change to its ABN, GST registration status or a cancellation of its ABN or GST registration.
The parties may agree in Part E(d) [Incentives and discounts] to pricing mechanisms that encourage better performance.
The contractor agrees that:

if it breaches this Agreement then DVA may suffer Loss that may be difficult or expensive to quantify accurately as a pre-estimate; and
any method for calculating liquidated damages agreed in Part E(d) [Incentives and discounts] provides a genuine pre-estimate of DVA Loss, and does not include a component that has the character of a penalty.
The contractor agrees to, at its own cost:

nominate an individual authorised to receive notices and to represent it, including to communicate appropriately with the Delegate as agreed in Part D(c) [Communication] or Part G(d) [Dispute management];
maintain sufficient management resources to support the services, good communication between the parties and government transparency requirements under clause 8 [Government framework];
maintain good record keeping practices to assist with any contract management and accountability requirements generally, including all applicable Australian Accounting Standards; and
provide appropriate training to its personnel with particular regard to issues arising under clause 9 [Privacy, confidentiality and no conflict of interest].
The Delegate may authorise a Liaison Person to help maintain communications or conduct specific tasks.
The contractor acknowledges that a Liaison Person has no authority to vary this Agreement or authorise payments.
Notices given by a party under this Agreement (as applicable) must be:

signed by the Delegate and handed to the contractor or sent to the address in Part B(b) [Contractor's representative] or as the contractor notifies the Delegate; and
handed to the Delegate, or sent to the address in Part C(b) [Government's representative] or as the Delegate notifies the contractor in writing.
Where a party has not acknowledged receipt of a notice, the notice may, in good faith, be treated as received:

on the date of delivery (if delivered to the appropriate place or person); or
according to the ordinary postal timing (if sent by prepaid post); or
on the next working day at the relevant location following dispatch (if transmitted electronically), providing that
the sender receives a report that the transmission succeeded, and
the recipient does not promptly inform the sender that it was illegible.
The parties will act in good faith to endeavour to speedily attempt to resolve potential disputes, including through involving appropriate senior personnel - although a party may at any time notify the other, in writing, that a formal dispute exists.
If, after a notice under clause 7.1 [Internal processes], the parties do not resolve a formal dispute within 10 working days (or another period agreed in writing, including under Part G(d) [Dispute management]), then a party may:

if the dispute is critical, start court proceedings; or
preferably, adopt alternative dispute resolution (eg, mediation) as agreed in Part G(d) [Dispute management].
The contractor agrees to preserve the integrity and good reputation of DVA, including when dealing with any person and the public.
If a person makes any complaint that may affect DVA's integrity or good reputation relating to this Agreement, the contractor agrees to:
comply with any agreed complaints handling procedures, including any set out under Part G(d) [Dispute Resolution];
promptly notify the Delegate about the nature of the complaint, in particular where the contractor receives a complaint alleging an interference with the privacy of an individual by the contractor or any of its personnel; and
allow DVA to intervene as it decides, including managing or settling the complaint.
The contractor agrees to provide, or arrange, prompt reasonable access for DVA (including the Delegate) and Commonwealth "Accountability Personnel", to:
premises where the services are or were being undertaken or delivered, including by its personnel; and
Material relating to this Agreement (including material listed in Schedule Part H(a)(1), wherever located, including any system of accounting in use connected with this Agreement.
To ensure it can meet its obligations under clause 8.3(b), especially in relation to personal information such as medical records or financial details, the contractor agrees to obtain the informed consent of all relevant persons including any Entitled Persons that may be receiving services from the contractor under this Agreement.
This may be achieved by noting that the person has been made aware that information of that kind is able to be accessed by DVA.
If "Accountability Personnel" approach the contractor directly, then the contractor agrees to immediately seek directions from the Delegate about appropriate steps to take.
For example, DVA may need to raise issues such as privacy, confidentiality, security, immunity from disclosure or the need for appropriate warnings.
The contractor acknowledges that it, or its personnel, may become directly subject to Commonwealth Law.
This includes as an allocated "Official" under the Financial Management and Accountability (FMA) Regulations (being a person performing a financial task or procedure regarding "public money", including its commitment, expenditure, management or control).
The contractor acknowledges that certain details about the nature, price and parties to Commonwealth contracts must generally be gazetted by DVA and may also be described in its Annual Report.
The contractor agrees to cooperate with DVA in its obligations under administrative law.
This includes cooperation in the handling of requests for access and applications for review of decisions under the Freedom of Information Act 1982.
It also includes cooperating in relation to procedures regarding any administrative review tribunal or as if the contractor were a "Commonwealth Institution" under the Archives Act 1983.
A recipient of the services under this Agreement may include a separate entity of the Australian government that is described in Part C(a) [Government parties].
Where more than one entity, agency or department is named then the inter-relation between them may also be explained in Part C[Government parties] and references to DVA will then include that separate entity (and its personnel).
The parties may supplement this clause 8 as agreed in Part G(c) [Public sector].
The contractor is made aware of section 95B of the Privacy Act 1988 (the Privacy Act) and that, in the performance of this Agreement, the contractor, its personnel or subcontractors will collect, store, update, use or disclose 'personal information' in accordance with the Information Privacy Principles under section 14 of the Privacy Act.
The contractor agrees to comply with section 95C of the Privacy Act relating to the disclosure of certain provisions of Commonwealth contracts.
The contractor agrees not to engage, or permit or authorise an agent or subcontractor to engage, in any act or practice that would breach the following provisions of the Privacy Act:
The Information Privacy Principles under section 14;
The National Privacy Principles (NPPs), especially NPPs number 7 to 10 under section 16A and Schedule 3, or an Approved Privacy Code, whichever is applicable; and

The contractor agrees to:
comply with policies of the Federal Privacy Commission, and DVA directions implementing the guidelines and recommendations of the Federal Privacy Commissioner, relating to the management of 'personal information';
cooperate with any reasonable demands or inquiries made by the Federal Privacy Commissioner; and
comply with DVA's prohibition against transborder flows of 'personal information' and refrain from exporting personal information without the prior approval of DVA.
The contractor agrees to indemnify DVA in respect of any loss, liability or expense suffered or incurred by DVA arising out of, or in connection with, a breach of the obligations under this clause by the contractor, its personnel or subcontractors or any misuse of 'personal information'.
The contractor agrees to include clauses in terms similar to this clause in any contract with an agent or subcontractor in relation to the performance of this Agreement.
Subject to clause 9.3, a party must not, without the prior written consent of the other party, disclose confidential information of the other party to a third party.
In giving written consent to the disclosure of confidential information, a party may impose such conditions as it thinks fit, and the other party in disclosing the confidential information agrees to comply with those conditions.
The contractor acknowledges that the Crimes Act 1914 may apply to it, such as to prohibit disclosure of official secrets or misuse of Commonwealth computers.
The contractor warrants that, after diligent inquiry, no potential conflict of interest arises from entering this Agreement, including anything:

restricting the fair conduct or delivery of the services; or
affecting DVA adversely, including its integrity, good reputation or issues stated in Part G(c) [Public Sector].
The contractor agrees to:

participate, and provide full cooperation, in security reviews of the security procedures implemented, on an annual basis or as otherwise agreed;
promptly report any security incidents, including violations and breaches, including steps taken by the contractor to address these;
immediately report any serious security incident (confirmed promptly in writing); 
recommend security improvements at soon as practicable; and
comply with security requirements for the protection of information, as notified by DVA under this Agreement from time to time.
Without derogating from any other right of access, DVA personnel may at any time have access (for security reviews, security audit requirements and security performance monitoring - including in the presence of contractor's personnel if required by DVA) to:

any premises or site of the contractor or DVA used in connection with this Agreement; and
any Contract Material or DVA Material under the control or custody of the contractor.
The contractor agrees to ensure that DVA Material is not accessible by any means by unauthorised persons, and at DVA's request, at any time, the contractor agrees to provide DVA with a written warranty that no breach of this clause 9.8 has occurred.
The contractor:
warrants that, at the date of entering into the Agreement, no third party has any Legal Rights in connection with Security Classified Information that relates to this Agreement, in favour of a third party, that have not been disclosed in writing to DVA; and
agrees that it will not at any time create, or arrange with a third party to create, any Legal Rights in favour of a third party, without prior approval from DVA (which, as noted generally under clause 16.5 [Interpretation], may be on any conditions).
The contractor agrees not to engage in activities, or obtain interests, creating a potential conflict of interest.
If a potential breach of this clause 9 arises, the contractor agrees to:

promptly notify the Delegate, disclosing full details of the nature and extent of the issue, including in writing if requested by the Delegate; and
take steps the Delegate reasonably requires.
The contractor agrees to ensure its personnel understand this clause 9 and that they agree to give undertakings, or consent to personal checks, in a form DVA may require, to sustain this clause 9.
DVA may rely on clause 15.4 [Specified default] if it is satisfied that the contractor (or its personnel) is in breach of this clause 9.
Ownership of DVA Material remains vested in DVA and any access, custody or control provided to the contractor will be non-transferable and non-exclusive.
Additional terms may be specified by the Delegate in Part H(a) [Access to DVA material].
The contractor agrees to:

promptly notify the Delegate about any potential Loss of DVA Material;
meet the reasonable requirements of the Delegate regarding the need to repair or replace DVA Material;
ensure that neither it nor its personnel seek or obtain a lien or mortgage over any DVA Material; and
make no disposal, or transfer of custody or ownership, of any Material that equates to a "Commonwealth record" under the Archives Act 1983, without written Commonwealth approval, including from the National Australian Archives.
The contractor agrees to transfer ownership of Contract Material, with the exception of any material listed in Part H(a)(1) to DVA:

upon the Agreement date; and
upon the creation of the Contract Material (if after the Agreement date); or
upon delivery to DVA (where the parties agree in Part H(a) [Access to contract material].
The contractor agrees to:

promptly ensure it is satisfied about the suitability of DVA Material;
ensure that use, storage and disclosure of DVA Material and Contract Material occurs only according to this Agreement;
use, maintain, protect and disclose DVA Material and Contract Material appropriately and following any conditions notified by the Delegate; and
promptly deliver to the Delegate relevant DVA Material and Contract Material it holds or controls on any relevant end date.
All Intellectual Property Rights vest exclusively in, and are solely owned by the party, owning rights or by the party who created or discovered the rights or brought them into existence.
Solely for the purpose and as is necessary to carry out this Agreement, each party grants to the other party a non-exclusive world-wide, royalty free licence to use, reproduce, adapt and exploit all necessary Intellectual Property Rights without being accountable in any way to each other.
The contractor agrees that the title to any Intellectual Property in, or in relation to, Material (tangible and intangible) produced at the request of DVA and funded by DVA under this Agreement, with the exception of any Material listed in Part H(a)(1), shall vest exclusively, upon delivery or on the expiration of this Agreement, in the Commonwealth.
The contractor warrants that it is entitled, or will be entitled at relevant times, to assign or license relevant Intellectual Property Rights under this clause 11.4.
This clause shall survive the expiration or termination of this Agreement.
The contractor acknowledges that it:
has entered into this Agreement as an independent contractor consistent with the purpose stated in Part A(a);
under this Agreement, it gets paid to achieve specific outcomes;
supplies its own personnel and/or subcontractors and equipment for delivery of the services;
bears the risks, including liability for defective work.
is not entitled (nor its personnel or subcontractors) to claim from DVA employment entitlements, including annual, sick or long service leave, workers' compensation, superannuation or pension benefits or to have DVA make contributions to a fund for the provision of superannuation or pension benefits to the contractor and acknowledges that the fees payable under this Agreement contain components to cover those benefits;
will not represent itself, and agrees to ensure that its personnel and subcontractors do not represent themselves as:
being an employee, agent or partner of DVA (or its personnel); or
able to bind or represent DVA (or its personnel) beyond any express authority given by DVA.
The contractor agrees to indemnify DVA (and its personnel) against any Loss reasonably incurred, at any time, in relation to this Agreement, from any claim, regarding or incidental to any:

fault, including deficient or inaccurate information, negligence (whether involving acts or omissions) or wilful misconduct, of the contractor or its personnel;
complaint or claim under clause 8.2 [Complaint handling];
breach of clause 9 [Privacy, confidentiality and no conflict of interests];
breach of Intellectual Property Rights, whether involving any assignment, licence or warranty under clause 11 [IPRs]; and
workers' compensation or other insurance payments or claims, including for premiums or compensation paid in relation to the contractor or its personnel.
The contractor's liability under clause 13.1 [Liability]:

will not exceed the full amount of the relevant Loss; and
is reduced proportionally to the extent that DVA was at fault in contributing to the Loss; but
does not exclude any other Legal Rights available to DVA.
The contractor, in ensuring its own viability as well as to support its commitments under this Agreement, agrees to:
obtain and maintain appropriate insurance from a reputable insurer, including as agreed in Part I(a) [Contractor's insurance];
promptly prove, upon request, that its insurance is current; 
enable DVA to communicate directly with its insurer; and
conduct any risk management activities as agreed in Part I(b) [Risk management].
DVA reserves the right to reduce the scope of (including the right to reduce any number of sites from which the contractor delivers any or part of the services), or cancel this Agreement, at any time including where there is a significant change in Commonwealth policy or where there is a change in control or ownership of the contractor, by written notice stating any end date(s).
The contractor agrees to notify DVA where there is a change in control or ownership no later than 14 days after such a change.
What the contractor must do in response to notice upon being given notice under clause 14.1 [Reduction or cancellation], the contractor agrees to:
stop relevant aspects of the services from the revised end date;
continue with aspects of the services not affected by the notice; and
promptly prepare an invoice for payment relating to the relevant end date (bearing in mind the limitation on compensation stated in clause 14.3 [Limits]).
DVA's liability to compensate under clauses 14.1 [Reduction or cancellation] and 14.2 [contractor response] extends only to:

paying fees, reimbursing costs and providing assistance for services
rendered before the relevant end date; and
continuing, where reduced, after the relevant end date with payment reduced proportionately to match the remaining reduced services;
compensating the contractor for costs reasonably incurred and directly attributable to the reduction or cancellation including aspects anticipated under Part G(a) [Disengagement]; and
a limit of the reasonable total payments that it otherwise would have paid, and not to cover prospective profits the contractor might have lost.
Where a party has breached this Agreement in any way (default) it should take active measures to rectify the default as soon as possible, including discussing appropriate options with the other parties.
Where a party may reasonably rectify a default under this Agreement, the other parties may give it a written notice requiring rectification within:

10 working days; or
any other period to which the parties agree, including as agreed under Part I(b) [Risk management] in relation to the relevant form of default.
If a party cannot reasonably rectify a default under clause 15.2 [Rectification], the other party may, by written notice stating any end date(s), terminate:
partially, regarding sufficiently severable aspects of this Agreement; or 
fully.
DVA may terminate this Agreement partially (regarding sufficiently severable aspects) or fully, by written notice stating any end date(s), if the contractor:

as an individual, becomes bankrupt or enters into a scheme of arrangements with creditors;
as a body corporate, becomes subject to a form of external administration, including under the Corporations Law; or
defaults in a manner that provides DVA with Legal Rights to terminate immediately, including regarding a matter noted under this Agreement (including Part I(b) [Risk management]) that provides rights to terminate under this clause 15.4.
A party may exercise its Legal Rights under this clause 15 without prejudicing any other Legal Rights that may accrue at any time.
This includes either party's ability to recover any Loss, and specifically DVA's ability to recover costs of making other arrangements to obtain expected services that the contractor did not complete.
The jurisdiction applicable to legal interpretation of this Agreement is the Australian State or Territory where DVA's signatory was located or the jurisdiction agreed by the parties in Part J(c) [Applicable Law].
The following order of priority applies to resolving any inconsistency that may arise between aspects of this Agreement:

a clause prevails over;
the schedule, which prevails over;
an attachment.
any Legal Rights relating to this Agreement are cumulative and do not exclude any other Legal Rights (plus any clause stating this expressly does not weaken the effect of this interpretive rule regarding any other aspect of this Agreement);

the exercise by a party of Legal Rights does not derogate from those or other Legal Rights, including future exercise of those or other Legal Rights;

any approvals provided by DVA may include additional conditions (including rights to review and clear relevant documentation);

where "include" (in any form) is used in this Agreement, examples following it do not limit the scope of the relevant issue to a specific example or class of examples; and

a term defined within a clause, used only within that clause, carries the same meaning when used in the schedule.
This Agreement can only be varied in writing, signed by the Delegate and by the contractor's authorised representative(s).
The parties may agree on specific procedures for managing variations in Part J(b) [Amendments], including the format for describing any chronology of variations.
If the contractor considers transferring its Legal Rights and obligations under this Agreement to any other person (ie, novation), the contractor agrees to:

promptly notify DVA of its intentions, explaining the issues;
provide any information required by DVA about persons involved in a potential novation; and
before attempting any novation, obtain written DVA approval, in which conditions may include acknowledgement by the contractor that it has residual obligations after the relevant end date.
The contractor agrees to obtain written DVA approval before assigning any Legal Rights under this Agreement - including any right to payment.
If any Law renders a provision of this Agreement invalid, void or unenforceable, then the parties will attempt to rectify the consequences by negotiations in good faith.
If this Agreement becomes frustrated, uncertain or varied fundamentally, either party may elect to cancel it upon reasonable notice, while committing to negotiate fair restitution for either party, as applicable.
All service delivery areas and sites from which the services are to be provided must be listed in the table below.
All changes in relation to any service delivery area/s or site/s must comply with part B(b) of the schedule and any other relevant term and condition contained in this Agreement.
LIST OF PROVIDER SITE/S, continued

Service delivery area
Site
ABN
Site address
Contact person
Position
Telephone
E-mail





































































Attachment 3 - Veterans' Home Care (VHC) System Access Request and Confidentiality Deed



This document constitutes Attachment 3 to all VHC Services Agreements to provide assessment, co-ordination and home care services (that is, personal care, domestic assistance, respite care and home and garden maintenance) for the Veterans' Home Care Program














Department of Veterans' Affairs (DVA)

Veterans' Home Care (VHC) System Access Request

Please provide details clearly


(A) Access Permissions 			


      

Assessor

 Regional Coordinator 

Home Care Service Provider
Employment Status
      




      
(B)  Requesting Officer's* Details

Temp

Cont

Perm
Last Name

First Name

Expiry Date of Contract 
             /             /  
E-mail Address
Work Telephone (       )

Codeword




(eg Mother's Maiden Name)
(C) Veterans' Home Care Contractor Details
Name of VHC Contractor you work for


Street Address
Expiry Date of contract between DVA and VHC Contractor 

Town/Suburb
Work Telephone (       )
Facsimile  (       )

State
Postcode

VHC System terms of access: 
VHC System Access is conditional upon the Requesting Officer agreeing to the following terms - 

Confidentiality of Information:
The Requesting Officer will maintain the confidentiality of commercial-in-confidence and personal information.
The Requesting Officer must sign the attached Confidentiality Deed and return it with this completed System Access Request form.
Confidentiality of Passwords/Passphrases:
The Requesting Officer will treat personal passwords/passphrases as confidential.
Password/Passphrase Security:
The Requesting Officer will not bypass or defeat the VHC System's security system or attempt to obtain use of passwords/passphrases or privileges issued to other persons.
Software Security:
The Requesting Officer will maintain the confidentiality and integrity of any software connected with the VHC System, whether developed by DVA or some other party.
Hardware Security:
The Requesting Officer will take reasonable steps to ensure that any computing equipment used in relation to the VHC System is protected from theft, damage and unauthorised access.
Reporting Lapses of Security:
The Requesting Officer will immediately inform the DVA business contact officer in their State of Territory of any breaches of the VHC System terms of access.
*A Requesting Officer includes any officer, partner, employee, agent, volunteer, contractor or subcontractor of the person named in item C of this System Access Request form.
Requesting Officer to sign here - I accept the VHC System terms of access and attest that the above details are correct 
Signature

Date


DVA VHC State Contact Officer approval - I approve this request and verify that these details are correct
Name
Signature

Date



National Office IT Security will contact the officer requesting access by telephone to advise logon and passphrase details.
The requesting officer will be required to quote their codeword for verification purposes.
If you have any concerns please contact the DVA VHC Business Contact Officer in your State or Territory.
DVA Security Use Only
Date/Time Received
Date/Time Completed
Logon id
Signature

CONFIDENTIALITY DEED

Purpose
The purpose of this Confidentiality Deed is to protect information of the Commonwealth, in particular DVA, and any person it has dealings with, in particular regarding pensions and benefits under the Veterans' Entitlements Act 1986 and the Military Rehabilitation Compensation Act 2004 and actual or potential commercial transactions.
This Deed is made by me, the person described on the signature page (the Signatory), who states under this deed, the following.
1.
Obligations
1.1 	[Maintain confidentiality] I agree: 

(a)	to keep the Confidential Information confidential; 
(b)	not to disclose (to any person) or copy, use, develop or exploit the Confidential Information or Personal Information, unless DVA has expressly consented in writing to such an activity; and
(c)	to mark any document that contains the Confidential Information as 'Confidential'.
1.2	[Recognise Loss] I acknowledge that:

it could cause significant Loss to DVA if I disclose, copy, use, develop or exploit the Confidential Information or Personal Information, other than in accordance with this Deed,
any disclosure, copying, use, development or exploitation of the Confidential Information or Personal Information must also be protected, such as through the execution of a Deed in similar terms to this Deed, agreed by DVA.
1.3	[Need to Notify] I agree that I will immediately notify DVA if I become aware that any of the Confidential Information or Personal Information: 

(a)	has been used, copied or disclosed without authority; or 
(b)	is required to be disclosed by Law.
2.
Delivery Up
2.1 	[No longer need to know] I agree to destroy all copies of the Confidential Information (including any stored in electronic form on any equipment) and return to DVA all other copies of the Confidential Information (e.g.
photocopies) that are in my custody or control, when:

(a)	I no longer need to use the Confidential Information, 
(b)	DVA asks me to, at any time, to return or destroy any or all copies of Confidential Information; or
(c)	I breach any provision of this Deed.
2.2	[Other copies] If DVA requires delivery up under clause 2.1 and I am aware that any relevant documents are beyond my custody or control, then I will provide full details of the whereabouts those documents, and the identity of the person with custody or control of those documents.
2.3	[Ongoing commitment] I agree, as a continuing obligation, that I will never disclose, copy, use or exploit the Confidential Information without the written consent of DVA.
3.
General
3.1	No waiver by DVA of a breach of any express or implied provision of this Deed operates as a waiver of a breach of the same or any other provision.
3.2	This Deed must not be construed to exclude the operation of any principle or remedy of Law intended to protect and preserve the confidentiality of the Confidential Information (including injunction to restrain breach of confidence or fiduciary duties).
3.3	The rights and remedies provided under this Deed are cumulative and not exclusive of any rights or remedies provided by Law.
3.4	This Deed may only be varied with the agreement of DVA.
3.5.
This Deed: 

(a)	does not transfer any interest in any Intellectual Property Rights; and 
(b)	the Commonwealth may grant or withhold any power it has to give consent with its absolute discretion and including any conditions, and
(c)	is governed by the laws applicable in the the State of.......................

4.
Definitions
In this Deed, unless the contrary intention appears:
Confidential Information
means information relating to the Commonwealth, and in particular DVA, and any person it has dealings with, particularly regarding pensions and benefits under the Veterans' Entitlements Act 1986 and actual or potential commercial transactions.
This includes any information (including disclosed orally) that is by its nature confidential, is designated confidential by DVA or that I know (or ought know) is confidential, but does not include information that:
(a)	is, or becomes, public knowledge (other than contrary to Law),
(b)	I possess, without restriction against disclosure, before receiving equivalent information from DVA,
(c)	I develop independently, or acquired from a person who had developed it independently or lawfully acquired it with no obligation restricting its disclosure, or
(d)	a Law compels me to disclose, although I agree to inform the DVA about that, which may still require this Deed to continue applying if the compulsion limited disclosure, eg to specific authorities.
Law
Includes any relevant:
(a) 	legislation (whether primary or delegated, from any Australian government, ie Commonwealth, State, Territory or local),
(b) 	judicial law (including the common law and the rules of equity), and
(c)	rights, remedies or powers arising under this Deed.
Loss
Includes any damage, liability, loss, injury or death, including economic loss and legal costs or expenses arising on a solicitor/own client basis.
Personal Information
means information or an opinion (including information or an opinion forming part of a database), whether true or not, and whether recorded in a material form or not, about a natural person whose identity is apparent, or can be reasonably ascertained, from the information or opinion.
Signature Page

Executed by me (the signatory) as a Deed on:            /       /         
      Insert date

Signed sealed and delivered by:


Name of the signatory







Signature and date
_____________      ___/___/___





In the presence of:


Name of the witness


Insert the name of the witness




Signature and date
_____________      ___/___/___





Attachment 4 - Supplier Details

For the purposes of Part B(c), the following legal entities shall be defined as a supplier:
DRAFTING TIP: If there is more than one supplier to be inserted, copy and paste the table for the number of supplier details required before inserting the information.
Full legal name of Supplier

Legal identity (eg, individual, company, partnership etc)

Trading or business name

Any relevant licence, registration or provider number

Australian Company Number (ACN) or other entity identifier(s)

Australian Business Number (ABN) and if applicable, Client Activity Centre (CAC) of the legal identity

Date and place of incorporation

Registered office (physical/postal)

Relevant business place (if different)

Telephone (General)

Fax (General)

E-mail (General)

Contact Person (Name)

Contact Person (Position)










xxvi


VHC ASSESSMENT AGENCY DRAFT DEED OF STANDING OFFER  

VHC Services Agreement, version August 2000	page 2



xxvi


VHC ASSESSMENT AGENCY DRAFT DEED OF STANDING OFFER	Page 40

VHC Services Agreement, version August 2000	page 46




Please return completed forms to the State Contact Officer, Department of Veterans' Affairs, referred to in part C(b) of the VHC Services Agreement.






Subject to you continuing to comply with this Agreement, the Commonwealth, through DEEWR and your NEIS Provider, will provide a minimum of five Mentor Support visits for you during the Period of NEIS Assistance.
The first Mentor Support visit will occur within the first month of the operation of your Business and at your Business premises.
Mentor Support visits will take place each Financial Quarter during the Period of NEIS Assistance.
Mentor Support visits will be face to face with at least three of those visits occurring at your Business premises, except:

if your Business is home-based or mobile, in which case you and your Provider may agree to an alternative location at which to hold face to face meetings, or

in exceptional circumstances, for example where your Business is located in an isolated area and Mentor Support visits are not practical, your Provider may implement an alternative mentoring plan provided DEEWR has given its prior written approval of the alternative mentoring plan.
Communication with your NEIS Provider

Your NEIS Provider will, during the period of this Agreement:

maintain contact with you at least monthly during the Period of NEIS Assistance and ensure that it receives a response from you (any failure on your part to respond appropriately and promptly to a contact will be investigated by your NEIS Provider, and may, at DEEWR's sole discretion, result in DEEWR withholding payment of your NEIS Allowance and NEIS Rental Assistance until contact is made).
during each contact:

confirm that you are operating your Business in accordance with your approved Business plan 
provide advice and counselling to you where required.
Subject to:

appropriation by Parliament

you continuing to comply with this Agreement

any other term of this Agreement

the Commonwealth, through DEEWR, will pay you fortnightly in arrears NEIS Allowance, which at the Commencement Date is the rate set out in the Schedule to this Agreement, for the Period of NEIS Assistance.
If during the Period of NEIS Assistance, you temporarily cease operating the Business through no fault of your own, and the cessation has resulted in your NEIS Allowance payments being suspended by the Commonwealth, DEEWR may, at its absolute discretion, extend the Period of NEIS Assistance so that you will receive up to 52 weeks of NEIS Allowance.
However, DEEWR will not extend the Period of NEIS Assistance by more than 13 weeks.
If you have commenced as a NAMA Job Seeker, you are not entitled to receive NEIS Allowance during your period of NEIS Assistance.
It is your responsibility to determine the income support arrangements that best meet your needs.
If you are receiving a DVA War Widow/er pension or Partner Service pension or a Disability Support Pension, Carer Payment, or Parenting Payment Single from Centrelink then you may choose to receive either your allowance/pension or the NEIS Allowance.
If you elect to receive your DVA or Centrelink allowance/pension then clause 4 of this Agreement does not apply to you.
If you elect to receive your DVA or Centrelink allowance/pension instead of NEIS Allowance, then nothing in this Agreement alters the manner in which either your DVA or Centrelink allowance/pension is payable to you.
If you elect to receive your DVA or Centrelink allowance/pension, you may once, and once only during the Period of NEIS Assistance, change from your DVA or Centrelink allowance/pension to NEIS Allowance.
If you change to NEIS Allowance, DEEWR will pay you NEIS Allowance fortnightly in arrears from that time until the end of the Period of NEIS Assistance.
If you elect to receive your DVA or Centrelink allowance/pension, you must, if requested by your NEIS Provider, complete and provide to your NEIS Provider, a statutory declaration or other evidence as requested, three months after the end of the Period of NEIS Assistance stating the number of hours per week that you are in employment.
Subject to appropriation by Parliament, you continuing to comply with this Agreement, and any other term of this Agreement, the Commonwealth, through DEEWR, will, for up to the first 26 weeks of the Period of NEIS Assistance (or as otherwise extended by DEEWR), pay you fortnightly in arrears NEIS Rental Assistance only if you:

are eligible for and receiving Rent Assistance from Centrelink or DVA under your current allowance/pension at the Commencement Date.
are not eligible for, or currently receiving a, Family Tax Benefit payment from Centrelink which includes the Rent Assistance component, and

give your NEIS Provider a "Confirmation of Eligibility for NEIS Rental Assistance" form completed by Centrelink or DVA after you have been approved for NEIS Assistance and before this Agreement is signed.
Subject to appropriation by Parliament, you continuing to comply with this Agreement, and any other term of this Agreement, if, within the first 26 weeks of the Period of NEIS Assistance:

you change from your Centrelink or DVA allowance/pension to NEIS Allowance in accordance with clause 9

you are eligible for and receiving Rent Assistance from Centrelink or DVA under your current allowance/pension at the date on which you change

you are not eligible for, or currently receiving, a Family Tax Benefit payment from Centrelink that includes the Rent Assistance component at the date on which you change, and

before the date on which you change, you give your NEIS Provider a "Confirmation of Eligibility for NEIS Rental Assistance" form completed by Centrelink or DVA

the Commonwealth, through DEEWR, will pay you fortnightly in arrears NEIS Rental Assistance, from the date on which you change until the end of the first 26 weeks of the Period of NEIS Assistance (or as otherwise extended by DEEWR).
If you have commenced as a NAMA Job Seeker, you are not entitled to receive NEIS Rental Assistance during your period of NEIS Assistance.
During the Period of NEIS Assistance, you must:

operate the Business in accordance with your Business plan.
Your Business plan may be varied in writing from time to time with the agreement of DEEWR or, at DEEWR's discretion, your NEIS Provider

unless specifically authorised in writing to do otherwise by DEEWR, work Full Time in the Business

hold and maintain a controlling interest in the Business for the duration of the Period of NEIS Assistance; or if DEEWR or, at DEEWR's discretion, your NEIS Provider, has approved you to operate the Business collectively with other NEIS participants, as set out in the Schedule to this Agreement (for example by means of a partnership, cooperative or company), you and the other NEIS participants must collectively hold and maintain a controlling interest in the Business for the duration of the Period of NEIS Assistance

subject to clause 15, submit to your NEIS Provider within 10 business days after the end of each Financial Quarter (or at any time as requested by DEEWR or your NEIS Provider) a NEIS Income Statement and any other business related financial information specified by DEEWR or your NEIS Provider, which must include but is not limited to:

cash inflows and cash outflows for the Financial Quarter

Business plan projection of cash inflow and cash outflow for the Financial Quarter

closing cash balance at the end of the Financial Quarter

balance of debtors and creditors for the Financial Quarter

not refuse to participate in instances of Mentor Support provided under this Agreement

be available for contact by your NEIS Provider or DEEWR at all reasonable times, and respond appropriately and promptly to contacts by your NEIS Provider or DEEWR

provide DEEWR, when requested, with access, during Business hours, to Business records for the purpose of programme monitoring and evaluation on the understanding that such information will be treated in confidence

provide DEEWR or your NEIS Provider, when requested, with a signed statement by an independent auditor certifying that the financial information you have provided pursuant to clause 14(d) about the Business is true and correct

maintain appropriate Business Insurance cover for the Period of NEIS Assistance, and, when requested, provide your NEIS Provider or DEEWR with details of that Business Insurance cover

not receive any other Commonwealth income support, including Rent Assistance, other than that referred to in clauses 7 - 10

assist DEEWR in any survey or evaluation of the NEIS programme conducted, or commissioned, by DEEWR within three years from the date of this Agreement.
If your Commencement Date is within four weeks before the end of a Financial Quarter, you are not required to provide your NEIS Provider with a correctly completed NEIS Income Statement/financial information as set out in clause 14(d) above for that Financial Quarter.
However, the first NEIS Income Statement/financial information provided by you must include financial information in respect of the period from the Commencement Date.
During the Period of NEIS Assistance you must advise your NEIS Provider immediately of a relevant change in your circumstances.
A relevant change of circumstances includes:
change of bank details;
closure of the Business i.e. your Business ceases operating; change of Business operations, for example, change due to your illness, you resuming employment or study, an intention on your part to relocate the Business, or any other event which is likely to affect whether the Business is Commercially Viable and/or that may prevent the Business from operating on a Full Time basis; change that could affect your control of the Business, with circumstances that could affect your control of the Business including, where the Business is controlled collectively by a number of NEIS Participants, changes to: the voting rights of the partners, members or shareholders the number of partners, members or shareholders the partnership, cooperative or company, which operates the Business. receiving any other State/Commonwealth/other income support or grant change in your Business or residential address change of your Business or residential phone number change of your name change of your Business name change of Business hours any other change in circumstances that may affect your entitlement to NEIS Assistance.
You must at all times fully cooperate with your NEIS Provider and DEEWR in relation to assessing whether your Business is Commercially Viable.
Your NEIS Provider will assess whether your Business is Commercially Viable at the times you provide your NEIS Provider with your second and third NEIS Income Statements/financial information as set out in clause 14(d).
Your NEIS Provider may also assess whether your Business is Commercially Viable at any time.
The Commonwealth may terminate this Agreement, including your NEIS Allowance, if your Business is assessed as not Commercially Viable at any time.
With the exception of a NAMA Job Seeker, your total gross External Income will be tested against the External Income Test at the end of each Financial Quarter that you have been required to provide a NEIS Income Statement/financial information for, as set out in clause 14(d).
If your total gross External Income during a Financial Quarter exceeds twice the rate of NEIS Allowance for the same period, then your NEIS Allowance and NEIS Rental Assistance will not be paid for the next Financial Quarter.
In the event of any overpayment of NEIS Allowance or NEIS Rental Assistance, for whatever reason, the amount overpaid will be a debt that you will owe to the Commonwealth.
You must repay the sum overpaid to the Commonwealth within 21 days of receiving a notice from the Commonwealth that there has been an overpayment.
If the overpayment has not been repaid within 21 days, you will be liable to pay to the Commonwealth interest on the outstanding amount at the interest rate determined by the Department of Finance and Administration from time to time, calculated daily from the next day after the due date up to and including the date of the payment.
If you owe the Commonwealth money under or in relation to this Agreement, or any other NEIS Participant Agreement to which you were a party, DEEWR may offset that debt against any other payments due to you under this Agreement.
DEEWR may, at its sole discretion, suspend your payment of NEIS Allowance and NEIS Rental Assistance (if applicable) and/or this Agreement, in whole or in part, and/or may terminate this Agreement, if:

you fail to comply with this Agreement

you fail to operate the Business in accordance with your Business plan

you refuse to participate in instances of Mentor Support provided under this Agreement

you do not lodge with your NEIS Provider a NEIS Income Statement within 10 working days after the end of the Financial Quarter

you do not take out and maintain appropriate Business Insurance cover for the Period of NEIS Assistance

you do not advise your NEIS Provider immediately of a relevant change in your circumstances according to clause 16

your Business is assessed as not Commercially Viable according to clause 17

except for a NAMA Job Seeker, your total gross External Income, during a Financial Quarter exceeds twice the rate of NEIS Allowance for the same period (see clause 18)

your Business is not, or ceases to be, established, located and operated solely within Australia

you commence employment or study external to your Business that, in DEEWR's opinion, prevents you from working Full Time in your Business

you are absent from your Business unless the time away has been described in your Business plan or agreed in writing by DEEWR or, at DEEWR's discretion, your NEIS Provider

you or your Business cease to meet the eligibility criteria for NEIS, or

additional information comes to hand that was not available, or was not made known to DEEWR or your NEIS Provider, at the time of signing this Agreement that would make you or your Business ineligible to participate in NEIS.
DEEWR will advise you in writing of the decision to suspend your payment of NEIS Allowance and NEIS Rental Assistance and/or this Agreement, in whole or in part, and/or to terminate this Agreement.
The advice will include date of effect and reasons for the suspension or termination.
DEEWR may, at its absolute discretion, extend the Period of NEIS Assistance so that you will receive up to 52 weeks of NEIS Allowance.
However, DEEWR will not extend the Period of NEIS Assistance by more than 13 weeks.
You will indemnify (and keep indemnified) the Commonwealth, its officers, employees and agents against any loss or liability (including legal expenses) resulting from any claim or action resulting from the operation of your Business, or any wilful, unlawful or negligent act or omission by you or your employees, agents or sub-contractors in connection with this Agreement.
Your liability will be reduced proportionally to the extent that the Commonwealth, its officers, employees or agents contributed to the loss or liability.
This indemnity will survive the expiration or termination of this Agreement.
You:
must not represent yourself, and must ensure that your employees, agents and subcontractors do not represent themselves, as being an employee, partner or agent of the Commonwealth, or as otherwise able to bind or represent the Commonwealth, and

are not, by virtue of this Agreement, or for any purpose, deemed to be an employee, partner or agent of the Commonwealth, or have any power or authority to bind or represent the Commonwealth.
Provided you comply with this Agreement, DEEWR will pay any amounts due under this Agreement by direct credit into the bank account specified in the Schedule to this Agreement.
You acknowledge and agree that:

NEIS Rental Assistance is non-taxable income

NEIS Allowance payable under this Agreement must be declared by you in your annual income tax return as personal income - DEEWR will not deduct Pay As You Go (PAYG) taxation instalments from the NEIS Allowance provided you have:

quoted your Tax File Number

claimed the tax free threshold, and
 
payments are not expected to exceed $50,000 in a financial year

DEEWR is required to obtain a completed Tax File Number Declaration from you - if you fail to provide a completed Tax File Number Declaration, DEEWR will deduct PAYG at the appropriate rate of taxation, plus the Medicare Levy, on each dollar of funding provided to you until a Tax File Number Declaration is provided and you have claimed the tax free threshold

the Business plan and any other assessments are carried out by DEEWR or, at DEEWR's discretion, your NEIS Provider, for the sole purpose of assessing your suitability and eligibility to receive NEIS Assistance in accordance with this Agreement.
The existence of a disagreement does not limit any of DEEWR's other contractual rights, including DEEWR's right to suspend the payment of NEIS Allowance and NEIS Rental Assistance, or to suspend or terminate this Agreement in whole or in part.
Disputes or complaints about a decision of your NEIS Provider or the quality of NEIS services provided to you are to be recorded and handled through the NEIS Provider's own internal complaints resolution process in accordance with the Employment Services Code of Practice.
If you are still not satisfied, you can call the DEEWR Customer Service Line on 1800 805 260.
Where appropriate, during the Period of NEIS Assistance, you should consider acknowledging in publications, promotional materials and in any publicity, the support you have received from the Commonwealth through NEIS.
Acknowledgement may be in the following terms:



PPMP has agreed to license and support the Software for the Licensee on the terms and conditions set out in this Agreement.
Upon execution and return of this Agreement and payment of the Licence Fee, PPMP:
grants to the Licensee and the Licensee accepts a non-exclusive, non-transferable licence to Use the Software on the System in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement; and
will issue to the Licensee one copy of the Software on media appropriate to the System, for Use on that System, at the specified Location, together with the necessary documentation to Use the same.
The Licensee is entitled to:
receive one copy of the Software for Use on the System, at the specified Location, together with the necessary documentation to install and Use the Software;
load, install and Use the Software on the System;
use the Software in accordance with the provisions of clause 2 of this Agreement;
receive information on Upgraded Versions; and
for the purposes of this Agreement, upgraded versions of the Software means enhancements, improvements or modifications to the Software.
Provided that the Licensee is not in default of payment of the Support Charges, PPMP agrees to support the Software for the Initial Term upon the terms and subject to the conditions contained in this Agreement.
Support provided by PPMP under this Agreement includes:
help desk facilities between 9.00am and 5.00pm Monday to Friday on Business Days (PPMP's standard hours);
correction of critical errors or assistance to overcome problems.
PPMP may, in its sole discretion, correct errors by 'patch' or by new version;
information on availability of new versions of the Software;
Upgraded Versions of the Software provided that the Licensee uses the most recent version of the Software and is not in default of their Support Charges;
access to and participation in a user group for the Software; and
access to online information regarding training, Software user tips, frequently asked questions and a help manual.
As part of the support services provided by PPMP, PPMP may provide the Licensee with Support Software, and in such an event the Support Software is subject to the terms of the licence granted in accordance with clause 2 but to the extent of support services only.
PPMP may charge for services requested by the Licensee which are not specifically covered by this Agreement.
PPMP may charge for service delivery if PPMP is unable to deliver by email.
Upon the expiration of the Initial Term, PPMP will continue to provide Support for subsequent terms of similar duration to the Initial Term provided that the Licensee does not default in payment of the Support Charges.
The Licence Fee specified in schedule 1 is payable in advance unless otherwise agreed in writing by PPMP.
If the Licensee's Support Charge payments are not in default, no additional charges will be levied for Upgraded Versions of the Software.
However, if a Licensee either does not pay Support Charges or is late in making payments for Support Charges, that Licensee may be subject to an additional charge upon issue to the Licensee of Upgraded Versions of the Software.
The additional charge for Upgraded Versions is payable within 30 days of issue unless the Licensee has returned the Upgraded Version unused to PPMP within such period.
In the event that the System is inoperable or requires or is under repair, the Licensee must report the same to PPMP for permission to Use the Software on a back-up system at no extra charge, until the System is operational.
The Support Charges are payable 1 month in advance by way of direct debit from the Licensee's financial institution account, unless otherwise agreed in writing by PPMP.
No support is given until payment has been received by PPMP.
Invoices will be provided on request.
Support Charges may also be subject to review as specified in clause 5.1 as well as to additional charges where any of the details specified in the schedule change.
The Support Charges payable in terms of this Agreement are based on services provided during normal working hours (9:00am to 5:00pm) on Business Days.
Additional or out-of-hours support is subject to a higher charge.
If the Licensee disputes the whole or any portion of the amount claimed in an invoice submitted by PPMP, the Licensee shall pay the portion of the amount stated in the invoice which is not in dispute and shall notify PPMP in writing (within 7 days of receipt of the invoice) of the reasons for disputing the remainder of the invoice.
If it is resolved that some or all of the amount in dispute ought to have properly been paid at the time of the first invoice, then the Licensee shall pay the amount finally resolved together with interest on that amount in accordance with the terms of payment set out in this Agreement.
The Licensee shall pay PPMP interest on any amount due and not paid by the Licensee within the timeframe required by this Agreement at the rate interest specified on the relevant invoice.
Support not included in this Agreement and which may be separately charged for includes:
support of other software, accessories, attachments, machines, systems or other devices not supplied by PPMP nor listed in the schedule;
rectification of lost or corrupted data arising for any reason other than PPMP's own negligence;
support rendered more difficult because of any changes, alterations, additions, modifications or variations to the Software or the System or operating environment;
attendance to faults caused by using the Software outside design or other specifications or outside the provisions laid down in any documentation or manual supplied with the Software, or caused by operator error or omission;
Restoration of data files following failure to backup in accordance with PPMP recommended procedures;
diagnosis and/or rectification of problems not associated with the Software;
on-site support if specified in schedule 1, where appropriate in the event telephone support does not resolve a Software problem; and
out-of-hours support where specified in schedule 1.
If any Supply made by PPMP to the Licensee under this Agreement is a taxable Supply, then:
in relation to any consideration payable by the Licensee to PPMP under this Agreement, PPMP is entitled to recover from the Licensee an additional amount on account of GST.
This amount is to be equal to the amount of PPMP's GST liability in respect of the Supply, calculated in accordance with the GST Act and on the basis that the consideration otherwise payable under this Agreement is the value of the taxable Supply and is to be recoverable at the time when the price is paid; and
the Licensee and PPMP acknowledge and agree that each Supply made under this Agreement is made:
on a progressive or periodic basis;
for consideration that is provided on a periodic or progressive basis; and
each progressive or periodic component of the Supply is to be treated as a separate Supply.
The Licensee agrees not to perform any of the acts referred to in this clause 8 except to the extent and only to the extent permitted by the applicable law to the Licensee as a lawful user (a party with an express right to use) of the Software and only then for the specific limited purposes stated in applicable law or this Agreement.
The Licensee must:
not copy the Software (other than for normal system operation and as specified in clause 2) or the Support Software (other than for normal support activities) nor otherwise reproduce the same provided that the Licensee may copy the Software for back-up purposes or incidentally, in the course of converting the Software in accordance with clause 8.2(c);
not translate, adapt, vary, or modify the Software or Support Software; and
not disassemble, decompile or reverse engineer the Software or Support Software, provided however that in the case of decompilation of the Software, the Licensee may incidentally decompile the Software:
only if it is essential so to do in order to achieve interoperability of the Software with another software program ('Permitted Purpose'); and
provided the information obtained by the Licensee during such decompilation is only used for the Permitted Purpose and is not disclosed or communicated to any third party whom it is not necessary to disclose or communicate such information without PPMP's prior written consent and is not used to create any software which is substantially similar to the expression of the Software nor used in any manner which would be restricted by copyright.
In addition, the Licensee must:
maintain accurate and up-to-date records of the number and location of all copies of the Software and Support Software, and furnish copies of these records to PPMP upon request;
supervise and control Use of the Software and Support Software in accordance with the terms of this Agreement;
ensure that the Software is protected at all times from misuse, damage, destruction or any form of unauthorised use;
replace the current version of the Software and Support Software with the Upgraded Version immediately upon receipt;
reproduce and include the copyright notice of PPMP on all and any copies, whether in whole or in part, in any form, including partial copies or modifications of the Software and Support Software made under this Agreement;
not provide or otherwise make available the Software or Support Software in whole or in part (including but not limited to program listings, object and source program listings, object code and source code), in any form to any person other than the Licensee's employees specified in schedule 1without prior written consent from PPMP;
ensure that all authorised users of the Software understand PPMP's obligations under this Agreement, and the possible civil and criminal consequences of breach; and
within 14 days after the date of termination or discontinuance of this Agreement for whatever reason (other than with respect to support only), return or destroy (as PPMP instructs):
in the event of termination of support, the Support Software; and
all copies, in whole and in part, in any form including partial copies or modifications of the Support Software received from PPMP or made in connection with this Agreement and all documentation relating to it, and
furnish PPMP with a certificate, certifying that the same has been done, unless the Licensee has obtained PPMP's prior written authorisation to retain one copy for archive purposes only.
Where support only is terminated or discontinued, this clause applies to Support Software.
The Licensee acknowledges that software in general is not error-free and agrees that the existence of errors does not constitute a breach of this Agreement.
If the Licensee discovers a material error which substantially affects the Licensee's use of the Software and notifies PPMP of the error within 90 days from the date of this Licence ('warranty period'), PPMP may at its sole option:
refund the Licence Fee; or
use all reasonable endeavours to correct by patch or new release (at its option) that part of the Software which does not so comply provided that such non-compliance has not been caused by any modification, variation or addition to the Software not performed by PPMP or caused by its incorrect use, abuse or corruption of the Software or by use of the Software with other software or on equipment with which it is incompatible.
Subject to clause 10.5 and to the extent permitted by the applicable law, PPMP disclaims all other warranties with respect to the Software and Support Software, either express or implied, including but not limited to any implied warranties of merchantability or fitness for any particular purpose.
Although PPMP does not warrant that the Software is free from all known viruses, it has used commercially reasonable efforts to check for the most commonly known viruses prior to packaging but the Licensee is solely responsible for virus scanning the Software.
PPMP is not liable to the Licensee for any loss or damage caused arising directly or indirectly in connection with this Agreement, the Software, the Support Software, its use, support or otherwise, except to the extent to which it is unlawful to exclude such liability under the applicable law.
Without limitation to clause 10.1, PPMP expressly excludes liability for consequential loss or damage which may arise in respect of the Software, the Support Software, its use, the System or in respect of other equipment or property, or for loss of profit, business, revenue, goodwill or anticipated savings.
If any exclusion contained in this Agreement is held to be invalid for any reason and PPMP becomes liable for loss or damage that may lawfully be limited, such liability is limited to the Licence Fee and one annual Support Charge.
PPMP does not exclude liability for death or personal injury to the extent only that the same arises as a result of the negligence of PPMP, its employees, agents or authorised representatives.
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Agreement, where any Act of Parliament implies any term into this Agreement, and that Act avoids or prohibits provisions in a contract excluding or modifying such term, that term is deemed to be included in this Agreement, but PPMP's liability for breach of that term is limited in one or more of the ways (at PPMP's option) permitted by section 68A(1) of the Trade Practices Act 1974 (Cth).
Subject to clause 11.3, the Licensee warrants that it has not relied on any representation made by PPMP which has not been stated expressly in this Agreement, or upon any descriptions, illustrations or specifications contained in any document including catalogues or publicity material produced by PPMP.
The Licensee acknowledges that to the extent PPMP has made any representation which is not otherwise expressly stated in this Agreement, the Licensee has been provided with an opportunity to independently verify the accuracy of that representation.
The Licensee shall at all times indemnify and hold harmless PPMP and its officers, employees and agents ('those indemnified') from and against any loss (including reasonable legal costs and expenses) or liability reasonably incurred or suffered by any of those indemnified arising from any proceedings against those indemnified where such loss or liability was caused by:
a breach by the Licensee of its obligations under this Agreement; or
any wilful, unlawful or negligent act or omission of the Licensee.
The Licensee acknowledges that any and all of the Intellectual Property Rights subsisting in or used in connection with the Software or the Support Software, including any modifications, improvements or enhancements made thereto, are and remain the sole property of PPMP or such other party as may be identified in or on it ('Owner').
The Licensee must not during or at any time after the expiry or termination of this Agreement (whether in whole or with respect to support only) in any way question or dispute the ownership of the Intellectual Property Rights by PPMP or the Owner.
In the event that any Intellectual Property Rights vest for some reason in the Licensee, the Licensee hereby assigns such Intellectual Property Rights to PPMP.
The parties acknowledge that clause 12.1 does not confer on PPMP any rights, title or interest in the Licensee's data files, patient files, or other business records which the Licensee inputs into or stores on the Software or Support Software.
The Licensee indemnifies PPMP fully against all liabilities, costs and expenses which PPMP may incur as a result of work done in accordance with the Licensee's specifications involving infringement of any Intellectual Property Rights.
PPMP agrees to indemnify the Licensee from and against liability under any final judgment in proceedings brought by a third party against the Licensee which determine that the Licensee's use of the Software or Support Software constitutes an infringement in Australia of Intellectual 

Property Rights affecting the Software and/or the Support Software as the case may be (and for the purposes of this clause the term Software is deemed to include Support Software) provided that:
the Licensee has not done, permitted or suffered to be done anything which may have been or become an infringement of any Intellectual Property Rights; and
the Licensee has exercised a reasonable standard of care in protecting the same,
failing which the Licensee indemnifies PPMP or the Owner against all actions, proceedings, costs, claims and expenses incurred in respect of that failure.
The Licensee must give PPMP prompt notice of any claim of infringement or of suspected or alleged infringement under clause 13.1 that is made against the Licensee and PPMP has the right to defend any such claims and make settlements at its own discretion and the Licensee must give such assistance as PPMP may reasonably require to settle or oppose any such claims.
In the event that any such infringement occurs or may occur, PPMP may at its sole option and expense:
procure for the Licensee the right to continue using the Software or any infringing part;
modify or amend the Software or infringing part so that it becomes non-infringing;
replace the Software or infringing part with other software of similar capability; or
repay to the Licensee the Licence Fee relating to the whole or the infringing part of the Software.
All information, data, drawings, specifications, documentation, software listings, source or object code which PPMP may have imparted and may from time to time impart to the Licensee relating to the Software, Support Software (other than the ideas and principles underlying the same) or support documentation or procedures is confidential.
The Licensee agrees that it must use the same solely in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement and that it must not at any time during or after expiry or termination of this Agreement (in whole or with respect to support only), disclose the same, whether directly or indirectly to any third party without PPMP's prior written consent.
The Licensee further agrees that it must not itself or through any subsidiary, agent or third party modify, vary, enhance, copy, sell, lease, license, sub-license or otherwise deal with the Software or any part or parts or variations, modifications, copies, releases, versions or enhancements of the Software or any Support Software or have any software or other program written or developed for it based on any confidential information supplied to it by PPMP.
This clause does not prevent the disclosure or use by the Licensee of any information which is or after the date of this Agreement, through no fault of the Licensee, becomes public knowledge or to the extent permitted by law.
If, in using the Software or Support Software, the Licensee discloses any practice or business information, financial information or patient information of a confidential nature to PPMP, PPMP agrees that it will keep confidential such information.
This clause does not prevent the disclosure or use by PPMP of any information which is or after the date of this Agreement, through no fault of PPMP, becomes public knowledge or to the extent permitted by law.
PPMP has no liability to the Licensee in respect of anything which, apart from this provision, may constitute breach of this Agreement arising by reason of force majeure, namely, circumstances beyond the control of PPMP including (without limitation) acts of God, perils of the sea or air, fire, flood, drought, explosion, sabotage, terrorism, accident, embargo, riot, civil commotion, including acts of local government and parliamentary authority; inability to supply the Software, Support Software, materials or support; the breakdown of equipment and labour disputes of whatever nature and for whatever cause arising including (without limitation) work to rule, overtime bars, strikes and lockouts and whether between either of the parties and any or all of its employees and/or any other employer and any or all of its employees and/or between any two or more groups of employees (and whether of either of the parties or any other employer).
In addition to other provisions for termination in this Agreement, PPMP may by notice in writing to the Licensee terminate this Agreement, in whole or at PPMP's sole option with respect only to the support, in any of the following circumstances:
if the Licensee is in breach of any term, condition or provision of this Agreement or required by applicable law and fails to remedy such breach (if capable of remedy) within 30 days of having received written notice of such breach from PPMP; or
if the Licensee enters into any form of insolvency administration, including liquidation, bankruptcy, receivership, voluntary administration or otherwise; or
if PPMP elects, at its sole discretion, to terminate the Agreement and gives the Licensee 30 days notice to that effect.
Upon termination, the Licensee must pay to PPMP all costs and expenses, including legal and other fees incurred and all arrears of fees, charges or other payments arising in respect of the Software, Support Software, or support generally, this Agreement or otherwise.
Termination is subject to any rights and remedies PPMP may have under this Agreement or at law.
In the event that this Agreement expires or terminates with respect to support only, the Licensee shall comply with the provisions of clause 8.3(h) where the same relates to any Support Software and documentation supplied by PPMP in performance of the support provisions of this Agreement.
Any express statement of a right of PPMP under this Agreement is without prejudice to any other right of PPMP expressly stated in this Agreement or existing at law.
The Agreement may be executed in counterparts by the respective parties, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement, provided that this Agreement shall be of no force and effect until the counterparts are exchanged.
Subject to any provision to the contrary, this Agreement shall enure to the benefit of and be binding upon the parties and their successors, trustees, permitted assigns or receivers but shall not enure to the benefit of any other persons.
The covenants, conditions and provisions of this Agreement which are capable of having effect after the expiration of the Agreement shall remain in full force and effect following the expiration of the Agreement.
The Licensee must not assign or otherwise transfer all or part of the Software or this Agreement without the prior written consent of PPMP.
Failure or neglect by either party to enforce at any time any of the provisions of this Agreement is not to be construed nor deemed to be a waiver of that party's rights under this Agreement nor in any way affect the validity of the whole or any part of this Agreement nor prejudice that party's rights to take subsequent action.
In the event that any of the terms, conditions or provisions contained in this Agreement are determined by any competent authority to be invalid, unlawful or unenforceable to any extent, such term, condition or provision is to that extent severed from the remaining terms, conditions and provisions which continue to be valid to the fullest extent permitted by law.
This Agreement is governed by the laws of Victoria and the Commonwealth of Australia.
Each party irrevocably submits to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of the courts of Victoria.
A notice required or authorised to be given or served upon a party pursuant to this Agreement must be in writing in the English language and may be given or served by facsimile, prepaid registered post or hand to that party at its address or facsimile number appearing in this Agreement or such other address or facsimile number as the party may have notified in writing to the other party or parties.
In the absence of proof to the contrary a notice is deemed to have been given or served on the party to whom it was sent:
in the case of hand delivery, upon delivery during Business Hours of the recipient;
in the case of pre-paid post, 2 Business Days after the date of dispatch; and
in the case of facsimile transmission:
at the time of dispatch if that dispatch is during Business Hours; or
at 9.00am on the next Business Day following the day of dispatch, if the dispatch is outside Business Hours.
A notice given or served under this Agreement is sufficient if:
in the case of a corporation, it is signed by a director or secretary of that corporation; and
in the case of an individual, it is signed by that individual.
the provisions of this clause are in addition to any other mode of service permitted by law.
In this clause 'notice' includes a demand, request, consent, approval, offer and any other instrument or communication made, required or authorised to be given under or pursuant to a provision of this Agreement.
In this clause 'Business Hours' means from 9.00am to 4.30pm on a Business Day.
In this Agreement, except to the extent the context otherwise requires:
the singular includes the plural and vice versa and a gender includes other genders;
a reference to a party is to be construed as a reference to a party to this Agreement;
a reference to a party to this Agreement or any other document or agreement includes its successors and permitted assigns;
a reference to an item in the Background, clause, schedule, annexure or appendix is a reference to an item in the Background, clause of or schedule, annexure or appendix to this Agreement and references to this Agreement include its schedules and any annexures;
where a word or phrase is given a particular meaning, other parts of speech or grammatical forms of that word or phrase have corresponding meanings;
a reference to a document or agreement including this Agreement includes a reference to that document or agreement as amended, novated, supplemented, varied or replaced from time to time; and
in the interpretation of this Agreement, headings are to be disregarded.

At the end of this term the housesitter may continue to occupy the premises under the same terms of this Agreement ONLY if notified by the homeowner.
A bond of $ must be paid by the housesitter to the homeowner's nominated agent on or before the signing of this agreement.
The homeowner agrees to give the housesitter:
a copy of this agreement at or before the time the agreement is signed; and 
a copy of this agreement signed by both the homeowner and the housesitter.
The homeowner agrees to pay:
Council rates; and
land taxes; and
the accounts referred to in Clause 3; and   
all charges under any Act for the residential premises.
The housesitter agrees to reimburse the homeowner:
for electricity; and
for gas (where applicable); and
for all telephone charges incurred during the term of this Agreement; and
for all water used during the term of the Agreement where the charge for the water is calculated 				according to the metered amount of water consumed; and
any excess garbage or sanitary charges; and
any charges for pumping out a septic system.
Any such charges shall be paid to the homeowner within 7 days of written request, or before the 			housesitter vacates the premises, whichever is earlier.
The housesitter may choose to pay the amount 			owing to the service provider directly, but the onus is on the housesitter to produce a receipt if 				requested by the homeowner.
The homeowner agrees:
to make sure the residential premises are vacant so the housesitter can move in at the time and date 			agreed; or
to give the housesitter at least 7 days notice of any change to the agreed move in date.
The housesitter agrees:
not to use the premises, or cause or permit the premises to be used, for any illegal purpose; and 
not to cause or permit a nuisance; and
not to interfere, or cause or permit interference, with the reasonable peace, comfort or privacy of 			neighbours.
The housesitter agrees:
not to part with the premises nor to adversely effect any insurance that the homeowner holds for the 			premises.
if the housesitter is responsible for the presence of an infectious disease or an infestation of rats, 	cockroaches,  fleas or other pests the housesitter shall inform the homeowner or contact and bear  
the cost of fumigation or eradication.
Where the infectious disease or pests is not due to the actions of 	the housesitter, the housesitter shall consult as soon as possible with the homeowner or contact as to 	their elimination.
not to keep any animal not belonging to the homeowner on the premises, unless agreed to and listed 			under Additional Terms.
to care for all items on the premises.
not to block any sink or drain and to regularly clean the bathroom, kitchen and appliances.
to maintain the grounds and garden in the same condition as at the start of this Agreement and 				remove all rubbish.
The homeowner agrees:
to provide written instructions as to the required care of the homeowner's pets; and
to provide all food for the pets, or make provision for the housesitter to acquire food for the pets; and
to make arrangements with a qualified veterinarian for any charges for veterinary consultations or 			procedures on behalf of the homeowner's pets to be paid for on account by the homeowner.
The housesitter agrees:
to carry out all the homeowner's instructions as to the care of the homeowner's pets.
to make every reasonable effort to ensure the good health and comfort of the homeowner's pets 				whilst abiding by the instructions of the homeowner in this regard.
The homeowner, or contact, or any person authorised in writing by the homeowner, during the currency 	of  this Agreement, may only enter the residential premises in the following circumstances: 
in an emergency (including entry for the purpose of carrying out urgent repairs); or
if there is good reason for the homeowner to believe the premises are abandoned; or
to inspect the premises, if the housesitter gets 7 days' notice (no more than 1 inspection per month); 			or
for any other purpose, if the housesitter agrees.
The homeowner agrees to make sure the residential premises are reasonably clean and fit to live in.
to keep the residential premises as clean and tidy as at the start of this Agreement; and
to notify the homeowner or contact as soon as practicable of any damage to the premises; and
not to intentionally or negligently cause or permit any damage to the premises; and
when the Agreement ends, to leave the premises as nearly as possible in the same condition (fair 			wear and tear excepted) as at the start of this Agreement.
The homeowner agrees to pay the housesitter, within 14 days of repossession, any reasonable costs 	which the housesitter has incurred for making urgent repairs (of the type set out below) so long as:
the damage was not caused as a result of a breach of this Agreement by the housesitter; and
the housesitter gives the homeowner, or contact, a reasonable opportunity to make the repairs; and
the housesitter makes a reasonable attempt to have any appropriate tradesperson named in this 				Agreement make the repairs; and
the repairs are carried out, where appropriate, by licenced or properly qualified persons; and
the housesitter as soon as possible gives or tries to give the homeowner, or contact, written details of 			the repairs, including the cost and receipts for anything the housesitter pays for.
The type of urgent repairs to the residential premises for which the homeowner agrees to make payment 	are repairs to:
a burst water service; or
a blocked or broken lavatory system; or
a serious roof leak; or
a gas leak; or
a dangerous electrical fault; or
flooding or serious flood damage; or
serious storm or fire damage; or
a failure or breakdown of the gas, electricity, or water supply to the premises; or
a failure or breakdown of any essential service for hot water, cooking, heating, or laundering; or
any fault or damage that causes the premises to be unsafe	or not secure.
The homeowner agrees to provide a contact with copies of the key or opening device, for use by the 		housesitter in the event of:
an inadvertent lockout situation; or
loss of keys by the housesitter; or
any other situation where spare keys may be required.
The housesitter agrees to be responsible to the homeowner for any act or omission by any person the 	housesitter allows on the residential premises who breaks any terms of the Agreement.
The housesitter agrees not to:
assign the whole or part of the housesitter's interest under this Agreement; or 
sub-let the residential premises, without the homeowner's prior written permission; or
have or permit a boarder or lodger (whether or not paying rent or board or other occupation fees).
The housesitter agrees that all telephones be maintained in the same state as at the start of the 	Agreement, and the housesitter shall make good all reconnection charges arising from any action of the 	housesitter.
The homeowner agrees:
to give the housesitter at least 7 days notice of an early termination of this Agreement; and 
if the term of this Agreement is 6 months or more, then the homeowner agrees to give the housesitter 			at least 28 days notice of an early termination of this Agreement.
The housesitter agrees:not to vacate the premises prior to the date of termination without written permission from the 				homeowner or contact; and	
to give vacant possession of the premises to the homeowner or contact on the date of termination; 			and
to return all keys and operating devices on the date of termination; and 
to provide the homeowner or contact with a forwarding address.
Both parties agree:
if either party persistently breaches this Agreement, then the innocent party may terminate this 				Agreement on 24 hours notice.
if the housesitter breaches clause 5, 6.3, or 16, then the homeowner may terminate this Agreement 			on 24 hours notice, even if the breach only occurred once, and even if the breach has been remedied.
that termination of this Agreement does not affect the right of either party to recover any moneys due 			by virtue of this Agreement. 

The Supplier must supply to EnergyAustralia the Services:
in accordance with the Services Specification, including without limitation, in accordance with any due dates for Services; 
to the best of the Supplier's abilities and knowledge; 
in a professional, efficient and safe manner, without negligence; 
in compliance with all applicable standards, awards, laws and regulations (including without limitation, awards and laws applicable to the Supplier's employees); and 
during any period in which the Supplier is at a location owned, operated or controlled to any extent by EnergyAustralia, in accordance with all applicable EnergyAustralia policies and procedures in force from time to time, as notified to the Supplier by EnergyAustralia.
the Supplier will supply the Services as an independent contractor;
this Agreement does not create a relationship of employer and employee, principal and agent, or partnership between EnergyAustralia and:
the Supplier; 
any Supplier's subcontractor; or
any of the Supplier's or the Supplier's subcontractor's employees; and
this Agreement does not give the Supplier, its subcontractors or their employees, authority to bind EnergyAustralia; and 
acknowledges and agrees that:
it is responsible for the payment of all taxes (including corporate tax, payroll tax, Pay-As-You-Go tax, training guarantee levy, fringe benefits tax, excise duties and similar imposts) and taxation obligations, except those arising under a GST, in respect of the Services;
it is responsible for maintaining a workers' compensation insurance policy in respect of any person employed or engaged by the Supplier used to provide services to EnergyAustralia;
it is responsible for the payment of superannuation for any person employed or engaged by the Supplier; and 
neither the Supplier nor any of its employees, contractors or agents is entitled to any superannuation contributions from EnergyAustralia.
If under any statute EnergyAustralia is considered an employer or principal employer and is obliged to make payments in respect of the amounts paid or benefits provided to or in relation to any employee or subcontractor of the Supplier, the Supplier:
must make all such payments on behalf of EnergyAustralia; and 
indemnifies EnergyAustralia against all such payments made by EnergyAustralia, including:
any additional tax, levy, or other payment whatsoever, including any interest, penalty or late fee that may be payable in respect of the late or non-payment of such tax, levy or other payment; and
remuneration, annual leave, sick leave, long service leave or other leave, or any other payment or entitlement to be paid or provided to such persons.
The parties agree that all amounts payable under this Agreement by EnergyAustralia are referred to on a GST Exclusive basis.
If any supply under this Agreement is a Taxable Supply, the party making the supply may, in addition to the payment for the Taxable Supply, recover the amount of the GST applicable to the Taxable Supply.
Any amount of GST payable is payable at the same time as the payment for Services (or other supply) to which it relates.
The party making a Taxable Supply under this Agreement must issue a Tax Invoice for that Taxable Supply to the recipient.
The Supplier must invoice EnergyAustralia for the Price at the times specified in the Services Specification, specifying how those amounts are calculated.
Words or expressions used in this clause which are defined in the A New Tax System (Goods and Services) Act 1999 have the same meaning.
On the Effective Date and otherwise on request from EnergyAustralia, the Supplier must: 

provide a completed declaration in the form of Annexure A in accordance with the Pay-roll Tax Act 2007 (NSW), the Workers Compensation Act 1987 (NSW) and the Industrial Relations Act 1996 (Cth) stating:
that all necessary workers compensation insurance premiums have been paid;
that all pay-roll tax in respect of the Supplier's relevant employees' (as defined under the Pay-roll Tax Act 2007 (NSW)) wages paid or payable for supplying the Services has been paid;
whether or not the Supplier is also a 'principal contractor' for the Services under the Pay-roll Tax Act 2007 (NSW), the Workers Compensation Act 1987 (NSW), or the Industrial Relations Act 1996 (NSW), and if the Supplier is a 'principal contractor' whether it has received a written statement in accordance with this clause 4.7  from its 'subcontractors' (as defined under the Pay-roll Tax Act 2007 (NSW), the Workers Compensation Act 1987 (NSW), or the Industrial Relations Act 1996 (NSW) );  
that the Supplier is a registered employer under the Pay-roll Tax Act 2007 (NSW), or is not required to be registered; and
that the Supplier has paid all relevant employees (as defined under the Industrial Relations Act 1996 (NSW)), all remuneration payable to them for the work and services to be provided under this Contract as at the date on which the statement was made; and
in writing in a form acceptable to EnergyAustralia (acting reasonably) all contributions to an approved superannuation fund, in respect of the contractor, have been made by the Supplier under the terms of the Superannuation Guarantee (Administration) Act 1992 (Cth); and
the Supplier has deducted or withheld all amounts of taxes under the PAYG or PPS income tax systems and that all amounts withheld or deducted have been submitted to the Australian Taxation Office as required.
EnergyAustralia does not claim ownership of anything of the Supplier that is not developed, created or generated specifically for EnergyAustralia but does claim ownership of Service Materials.
Accordingly, the Supplier:
presently assigns to EnergyAustralia all present and future Intellectual Property Rights in all Service Materials; and
must at its own cost do all things reasonably requested by EnergyAustralia to enable EnergyAustralia to assure further the title and rights assigned under clause 5.1(a).
On request by EnergyAustralia from time to time, the Supplier must supply to EnergyAustralia one copy of the Service Materials in their then current state.
The Supplier warrants that:
supplying the Services and Service Materials, it will not infringe the Intellectual Property Rights or Moral Rights of any person;
it has all rights necessary to make the assignments under clause 5.1(a);
use of the Services or the Service Materials by EnergyAustralia or its contractors in accordance with this Agreement will not infringe the Intellectual Property Rights or Moral Rights of any person;
all Services will be supplied:
in accordance with the applicable service levels (if any) specified in the Services Specification; and
with due care and skill.
The Supplier indemnifies EnergyAustralia on a full indemnity basis for all claims against, and losses and damages suffered by EnergyAustralia as a result of:
any breach of the warranties in clauses 6.1(a), (b) and (c); and
third party claims arising from the Services.
The Supplier must effect and maintain in a form appropriate to the Supplier's activities and with and insurer acceptable to EnergyAustralia, comprehensive insurance in respect of the Services, including:
workers compensation insurance in accordance with applicable law and awards and insurance against common law liability to the Supplier's workers engaged in connection with the Services;
liability insurance, including public liability and product liability insurance, appropriate to the Supplier's activities, each for an amount not less than $20 million for any one occurrence, and in the aggregate, including loss of or damage to personal and real property of EnergyAustralia (including documents and records); and
professional indemnity insurance for an amount of $10 million for any one claim and in the aggregate for breach of professional duty whether incurred in contract, tort or otherwise by reason of any act or omission of the Supplier,
(together, the insurance policies).
The Supplier must:
effect the insurance policies referred to in clause 6.3 (c) before starting to supply the Services and maintain them for not less than 3 years following termination or expiration of this Agreement; 
effect the insurance policies referred to in clauses 6.3(a) and (b) before starting to supply the Services and maintain them until termination or expiration of this Agreement, or as otherwise required by EnergyAustralia;
ensure its subcontractors have sufficient appropriate insurance to satisfy their liabilities arising out of or in relation to this Agreement; and 
provide, on EnergyAustralia's request, evidence satisfactory to EnergyAustralia of the insurance specified in this clause.
Each party:
may use Confidential Information of the other party solely for the purposes of this Agreement;
except as permitted under clause 7.1(c), must keep confidential all Confidential Information of the other party; and
may disclose Confidential Information of the other party only:
to persons who:
are aware and agree that the Confidential Information of the other party must be kept confidential; and
either have a need to know (and only to the extent that each has a need to know), or have been specifically approved by the other party; or
as required by law or stock exchange regulation.
Even though information is the Confidential Information of a party, the other party does not have to comply with clause 7.1 in relation to that Confidential Information if:
the Confidential Information becomes public knowledge during this Agreement; or
the other party became aware of that Confidential Information from a third person,
in circumstances where there was no breach of any obligation of confidence.
Each party must comply with:
the reasonable directions of the other party in relation to the handling of any Personal Information; and
the Privacy Act 1988 (Cth).
EnergyAustralia may disclose Confidential Information of the Supplier to any Minister, department or officer of the State or New South Wales for a legitimate government purpose.
This Agreement terminates if:
the Supplier completes supplying the Services in accordance with this Agreement (EnergyAustralia will notify the Supplier in writing when this happens);
EnergyAustralia gives at least 14 days notice to the other party of a date that it wants this Agreement to terminate; or
a party terminates this Agreement in accordance with clause 8.2.
A party may terminate this Agreement with immediate effect by giving notice to the other party if:
that other party breaches any material term of this Agreement not capable of remedy; or
that other party breaches any material term of this Agreement capable of remedy and fails to remedy the breach within 30 days after receiving notice requiring it to do so.
EnergyAustralia may terminate this Agreement with immediate effect by giving notice to the Supplier if:
after the date this Agreement is executed, there is a change in control of the Supplier; or
the Services are to be completed by a specified date or in accordance with a specified timetable, and the Services are not completed by that date or in accordance with that timetable, or if EnergyAustralia reasonably decides the Services will not be so completed.
As soon as possible after termination of this Agreement, each party (first party) must return to the other party all Confidential Information of that other party in material form (including without limitation, those parts of all notes or records of the first party containing Confidential Information of the other party) in the first party's possession or control.
The Supplier must not assign this Agreement or any right under this Agreement without EnergyAustralia's written consent.
The Supplier must not subcontract to any person the performance of any of its obligations under this Agreement without EnergyAustralia's written consent.
The Supplier agrees that EnergyAustralia may assign or transfer the whole of this Agreement and its related rights and obligations under this Agreement to any Entity that is not a competitor of the Supplier, including any Entity:
to which the assets the subject of this Agreement are transferred;
that assumes the management of the Services for a business or businesses that own the assets the subject of this Agreement; or
to comply with or accommodate any law.
The parties agree that it is their intention that all rights, obligations and liabilities under or in connection with this Agreement are to apply, even where the relevant circumstances involve a failure to take reasonable care and the existence of concurrent wrongdoers (as that term is defined in section 34(2) of the Civil Liability Act 2002 (NSW)), unlimited and otherwise unaffected by anything that, but for this clause 10.4, may by virtue of the provisions of the Civil Liability Act 2002 (NSW) have limited or otherwise affected those rights, obligations and liabilities.
A party notifying or giving notice under this Agreement must notify:
in writing;
addressed to the address of the recipient specified on the first page of this Agreement or as varied by notice given in accordance with this clause; and
left at or sent by post or facsimile to that address.
A notice given in accordance with clause 11.1 will be taken to have been received:
if delivered by hand, to the recipient's address, on the date of delivery, as long as delivery is acknowledged in writing by the recipient;
if sent by post, 3 working days after the posting; and
if sent by facsimile on a working day at the recipient's, on the date of transmission, or if sent on a non-working day at the recipient's, on the next working day (in both cases as long as the sender's facsimile machine records a successful transmission).
Neither party may start court proceedings (except proceedings seeking interlocutory relief) in respect of a Dispute unless it has first complied with this clause.
A party claiming that a Dispute has arisen must notify the other party in writing of the event occurring that has given rise to the Dispute.
If a Dispute is not resolved within a 20 day working period (or if the parties agree a longer period, that longer period), of a Dispute being notified under clause 12.2, the Dispute must be referred:
for mediation, in accordance with the Australian Commercial Disputes Centre (ACDC) Mediation Guidelines; and
to a mediator agreed by the parties, or if the parties do not agree on a mediator, a mediator nominated by the then current chief executive officer of ACDC or the CEO's nominee (or if no such person is available or willing to nominate a mediator, by the then President of the Law Society of New South Wales).
Except where a party (First Party) waives its right in writing, a First Party's:
consideration or negotiation of a request by the other party (Other Party) to vary this Agreement in a way that would vary any obligation of the Other Party under this Agreement; or
failure to insist that the Other Party perform any obligation under this Agreement,
is not a waiver of the First Party's right to:
insist the Other Party perform any obligation; or
claim damages for breach of any obligation.
If the parties want to vary this Agreement they must do so by a document signed by an authorised representative of each party.
This Agreement may be executed in counterparts.
All executed counterparts constitute one document.
This Agreement is governed by the law applicable in New South Wales and each party irrevocably and unconditionally submits to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of the courts of that state.


This agreement commences on the date of execution by all parties and, unless terminated earlier under clause 14, continues until the date which is 30 days after the end of the Consignment Period.
By the Delivery Date, the Art Centre must deliver the Artwork to the Gallery at the Exhibition venue or such other location as the parties agree in writing.
The Gallery must provide a receipt upon delivery of the Artwork to the Gallery by signing and dating a copy of Schedule 2 and forwarding it to the Art Centre;
if Schedule 1 describes a specific exhibition, only offer the Artwork for sale in connection with that Exhibition unless agreed otherwise with the Art Centre in writing;
exhibit, offer for sale and use its best efforts to sell each Artwork at the Retail Price during the Consignment Period; and
return any unsold Artwork to the Art Centre by the end of the Consignment Period.
The Art Centre and the Gallery may agree in writing to vary the Retail Price of an Artwork, including by way of a discount.
The Art Centre and the Gallery will not agree to discount the Retail Price of any Artwork unless they have reasonable grounds to believe that such a discount is:
in the interests of the Artist; and
necessary in order to achieve a sale of that Artwork.
The Gallery may charge the Gallery Commission in respect of each sale of an Artwork made by the Gallery during the Consignment Period;
acknowledges that the Gallery Commission covers all costs incurred by the Gallery under this agreement, including but not limited to costs relating to advertising and promotion, transparencies, publications, catalogues, invitations, postage, and any catering or entertainment for any Exhibition.
In respect of each Artwork sold, the Gallery must pay the Art Centre the Sale Price (exclusive of GST) less the Gallery Commission:
by the Payment Date; and 
by the Payment Method.
The Gallery must pay Interest on late payments.
Interest:
accrues from (and including) the date any unpaid amount is due and is payable to the Artist until the amount is paid in full;
is payable on demand;
accrues daily and is capitalised if not paid every 7 calendar days; and
is calculated on the basis of the actual number of calendar days on which interest has accrued and a 365 days year.
No later than the last business day of each calendar month during the Consignment Period and the calendar month immediately following the Consignment Period, the Gallery will provide the Art Centre with a written statement setting out the following matters:
details of each Artwork sold and its Sale Price;
the number of days that the Artworks were exhibited for sale during the month; and
the number of visitors to any Exhibition.
To the extent allowed by law, at the time of selling Artwork, the Gallery will use its best efforts to obtain the contact details of the purchaser and must forward those details to the Art Centre by the Payment Date.
The Gallery agrees that the Art Centre may use such information to promote the activities of the Art Centre, in applications and reports to funding bodies, and in the biographical and promotional materials of the Artists.
The Gallery will promptly provide the Art Centre with any other information which the Art Centre may reasonably request for the purpose of claiming payments due to any Artist under any applicable resale rights royalty scheme.
The parties agree that all payments to be made under this agreement are exclusive of Goods and Services Tax (GST).
If a party is liable to pay GST in respect of any good or service supplied under this agreement, that party will invoice the other party for the GST amount payable for the good or service and will ensure that the invoice is a GST compliant invoice.
The party who receives the GST compliant invoice must pay the amount of GST invoiced at the same time as the amount payable under this agreement.
The Gallery must maintain accurate books and records in relation to sales of Artwork.
Within 14 calendar days of the Art Centre's request, the Gallery will make all books and records available to the Art Centre during the normal business hours.
If any discrepancy is established in favour of the Art Centre upon examination of the books and records, the Gallery must pay the Art Centre the costs of the examination and the deficit amount within 14 calendar days.
The Gallery a is responsible for unpacking, installing and displaying the Artwork and must ensure that these activities are carried out by suitably qualified personnel;
must consult with the Art Centre and use its best efforts to ensure that each Artwork is displayed in a manner that is fair, accessible to the public and sympathetic to the Artwork's context;
must not frame or remount the Artwork except with the prior written consent of the Art Centre;
must handle each Artwork with special care at all times to prevent damage or deterioration that is not a characteristic of the Artwork; 
must ensure the safe protection of the Artwork at all times including but not limited to protection from hazards of fire, flood, theft, dirt, food, drinks, smoking or handling by unauthorised or inexperienced personnel, including but not limited to members of the public;
must only exhibit, store and install the Artwork in a place that is equipped with adequate fire detection, protection and security monitoring systems;
must ensure that every exhibition is properly supervised at all times when open to the public;
must provide a draft of any Exhibition invitation and catalogue to the Art Centre for approval at least 7 days prior to printing;
agrees to consult with the Art Centre as to whether the Artwork will be available for selected viewing and sale prior to the Exhibition opening;
at the end of the Consignment Period, must provide to the Art Centre:
copies of all publicity materials including advertising brochures, catalogues and price lists to the Art Centre in a sufficient quantity to provide a set of such materials for the Art Centre's records and a set for each Artist; and
electronic copies of all photographs taken by or for the Gallery under clause 12.3; and
agrees to use all reasonable efforts to obtain copies of any reviews or media articles about the Exhibition and to forward these to the Art Centre.
The Art Centre will arrange and pay for the transport of the Artwork to the Gallery and its associated packing and transit insurance.
The Gallery will arrange and pay for repacking, transport and transit insurance for the Artwork to be returned to the Art Centre, and for Artwork to be delivered to purchasers.
The Gallery must take out and maintain:
adequate insurance against loss, damage, theft and destruction of the Artwork for the Consignment Period and for a sum not less than the total of the Retail Price of each Artwork;
appropriate public liability insurance.
The Gallery must promptly notify the Art Centre in writing if an Artwork is lost, damaged, stolen or destroyed and:
if the Artwork has been damaged and is reparable, the Gallery must promptly pay the Art Centre the reasonable costs of repairs to the Artwork or, if the Art Centre consents to the Gallery making or arranging for the repair, ensure that the Artwork is repaired to the Art Centre's satisfaction;
if an Artwork is lost, stolen, irreparably damaged or destroyed, promptly pay the Art Centre the Retail Price of the Artwork.
The Artist retains title to the Artwork until the Sale Price is paid to the Gallery, at which time title passes directly to the purchaser.
The Gallery acknowledges that copyright in each Artwork is owned by, and remains with, the Artist.
The Art Centre, as the non-exclusive licensee of the copyright in each Artwork, permits the Gallery to photograph the Artwork for the purpose only of promoting the exhibition and sale of the Artwork under this agreement, including for the purpose of creating catalogues and invitations, on the Gallery's website, and providing Certificates of Authenticity to purchasers.
The Gallery must not otherwise deal with any copyright in the Artwork without obtaining the Art Centre's prior written consent.
Without limitation, the Gallery must not photograph or otherwise reproduce any Artwork or let any other person or organisation to do so without obtaining the Art Centre's prior written consent.
The Gallery must display a copyright notice that includes the Artist's name, the copyright symbol and the year that the Work was created:
next to each Artwork; and
accompanying all reproductions of the Artwork.
Without limiting the Artist's moral rights under the Copyright Act 1968 (Cth), the Gallery:
must not, and must not let any other person or organisation, destroy, damage, or alter any Artwork;
must acknowledge the Artist correctly and clearly whenever the Artwork is displayed or reproduced, including in all publicity materials; and
if requested by the Art Centre and using wording provided by the Art Centre, agrees to display such other public notices addressing cultural issues related to the Artwork as the Art Centre considers reasonably necessary.
If the Artwork embodies traditional ritual indigenous knowledge, the Gallery must display the Notice of Custodial Interest set out in Schedule 1 in a reasonably prominent position with the Artwork.
Upon request by the Art Centre, the Gallery agrees to include the Notice of Custodial Interest in the Exhibition catalogue and with the documentation provided to each purchaser.
By the Delivery Date, the Art Centre must:
provide the Gallery with a biographical statement for each Artist, which has been approved by the Artist for publication; and
where applicable, supply the Gallery with Artist's artistic statements to accompany the Artwork.
Solely in connection with the exhibition and sale of the Artwork, the Gallery:
may copy and exploit the Artist's name and likeness;
may display and reproduce the Artist's biographical statements and artistic statements
will, if requested by the Art Centre, display the Artist' biographical statements and artistic statements next to the Artwork, and provide a copy to each purchaser;
acknowledges that in the event of an Artist's death, the subsequent display of the Artist's likeness during the Consignment Period may be culturally inappropriate and, upon notification of the Artist's death and receipt of a request to do so from the Art Centre or the Artist's family, agrees to remove from display, to the extent reasonably practicable, any likenesses or images of the Artist.
If a party commits a breach of this agreement, the other party must notify the party in breach of the breach in writing.
The party in breach must remedy the breach within 28 calendar days of the notice (Notice Period).
If the breach is not remedied at the expiry of the Notice Period, the party who gave the notice may terminate this agreement immediately by written notice.
The agreement automatically ends if either party becomes insolvent, is declared bankrupt, has a liquidator appointed or goes into administration, voluntary or otherwise.
all rights granted to the Gallery by the Art Centre under this agreement revert to the Art Centre; and
the Gallery must, at its cost, return any unsold Artwork to the Art Centre within 21 calendar days.
If a dispute or disagreement (Dispute) arises between the parties in connection with this agreement:
either party must notify the other party in writing about the Dispute; and
each party must refrain from starting any litigation or arbitration in relation to the Dispute until the parties have complied with this clause.
The parties should meet within 14 calendar days after receipt of the notice of dispute and hold good faith discussions to attempt to resolve the Dispute.
If the Dispute is not resolved within 28 calendar days after receipt of the notice of dispute, the parties agree to submit the dispute to mediation.
If the parties are not able to agree to a mediator or mediation process within 35 calendar days after receipt of the notice of dispute, the parties must submit the Dispute to mediation according to the Arts Law Centre Mediation guidelines current at that time (Guidelines).
These guidelines are part of this agreement.
If the parties are unable to resolve the Dispute within 7 calendar days of commencing mediation or such later time as may be agreed during the mediation, either party may refer the matter to arbitration or commence litigation.
The parties must continue to perform their respective obligations under this agreement despite the existence of a Dispute.
The parties acknowledge that the Gallery becomes the agent of the Art Centre as a result of this agreement only in respect of the Artwork listed in Schedule 2.
A notice required to be given under this agreement may be delivered by hand, or sent by pre-paid post or fax to the address of the party indicated in Schedule 1.
Notices are taken to have been served when received, or within 2 business days of having been sent, whichever occurs first.
Neither party may assign, subcontract, novate or otherwise divest this agreement or any of the rights or obligations under this agreement without the other party's prior written consent.
This consent must not be unreasonably withheld.
Subject to clause 16.6, this agreement contains the entire agreement of the parties regarding its subject matter.
Any previous understanding, agreement, representation or warranty relating to that subject matter is replaced by this agreement and has no further effect.
Nothing in this agreement transfers or excludes any applicable cultural rights in favour of Australian Indigenous people that may be implemented under Australian law.
This agreement may only be modified by a written amendment signed by the parties.
Invalidity of any clause of this agreement will not affect the validity of any other clause except to the extent made necessary by the invalidity.
This agreement is governed by the law in force in the jurisdiction specified in Schedule 1.
The parties submit to the jurisdiction of the courts of that State and any court competent to hear appeals from those courts.
The Schedule and any document attached to it by reference or otherwise shall be deemed to be substantive parts of, and be construed in accordance with, this Deed.
This Deed may be executed in any number of counterparts.
All of such counterparts taken together shall be deemed to constitute one and the same Deed.
Where any conflict arises between the terms and conditions contained in the clauses of this Deed and any part of the Schedule (and attachments, if any), the terms and conditions of the clauses prevail.
Where any conflict arises between any part of the Schedule and any part of an
attachment, the Schedule prevails.
Where the Institution consists of more than one person, those persons agree to be jointly and severally bound by the terms of this Deed.
The laws of the State of New South Wales apply to this Deed.
This Deed comprises the entire agreement between the parties in relation to its subject matter.
No variation of this Deed shall be legally binding on either party unless executed in the same manner as this Deed.
If a party does not exercise (or delays in exercising) any of its rights under this Deed or at law, that failure or delay does not operate as a waiver of those rights.
A single or partial exercise by a party of any of its rights under this Deed or at law
does not prevent the further exercise of any right.
The Institution shall ensure that spending in relation to the Fellowship occurs only within the Period of Funding.
The Institution shall, unless otherwise specified at Item D:
administer the Fellowship in accordance with the Fellowship Purposes and with Item A and, in particular;
comply with the objectives of the Fellowship as set out in the recitals to this Deed;
comply with the objectives for the Fellowship specified in the Application identified at Item D;
undertake the activities specified in the Application identified at Item D;
endeavour in good faith to achieve the expected outcomes for the Fellowship specified in the Application identified at Item D and support the objectives of the Fellowship; and
notify ARC immediately of any expected or actual delay or
suspension (over three (3) months) in the progress of the Fellowship;

provide the Fellowship recipient with the necessary assistance, facilities and services for the efficient conduct of the Fellowship;

meet the normal overhead and operating expenses of the Institution as required to support the Fellowship recipient's research;

meet the expenses of the amount of any salary and other entitlements or
conditions of service payable as a result of an enterprise or other agreement which is in excess of the amount of the Fellowship Support Package levels provided for under the Fellowship;

meet the expenses of the amount of any stipend or other entitlements payable to Fellows as stipend or allowances provided for under the Fellowship;

ensure that all relevant Institutional Approvals set out in Annexure A are
obtained and maintained as required for the duration of the Fellowship and the Institution must confirm this in every Progress Report ;

ensure that any machine-readable data arising from a Fellowship involving research relating to the social sciences is lodged with the Australian Consortium for Social and Political Research Inc. (ACSPRI) or any other appropriate archive for secondary use by other researchers.
This should normally be done within two years of the conclusion of any fieldwork relating to the Fellowship research.
If the Fellow is not intending to do so within the two-year period, s/he should include the reasons in the Fellowship's Final Report; and

otherwise comply strictly with the terms and conditions of this Deed.
Subject to compliance by the Institution with this Deed, ARC agrees to pay the Funds to the Institution in accordance with the payment schedule specified in Item E.

Unless otherwise specified in Item E, payment of the Funds will be made quarterly in advance in respect of all Approved Budget components.
The amounts to be contributed by ARC for or in connection with the Fellowship shall not exceed the Funds.
Payment of the Funds will not commence until satisfactory evidence is provided to ARC that all Institutional Approvals required for research under the Fellowship have been obtained by the Institution.
Where any Institutional Approvals necessary for the research are withdrawn or not renewed during the Period of Funding, the Institution must notify ARC as soon as practicable or within one (1) month after the withdrawal or expiration of the Institutional Approval and ARC may terminate this Deed or suspend or terminate payment of the Funds for the Fellowship pursuant to clause 15.
Payment of the Funds will only commence after the Institution has notified ARC of the proposed date of commencement for the Fellowship.
The Fellowship must commence by the final date of commencement specified in Item C, or Funding will be terminated unless the Institution has obtained the written approval of ARC for the continuation of Funding, prior to the final date of commencement.
Entitlement of Fellowship recipients to allowances, bridging support, reimbursement of expenses and reimbursement for specified leave, if any, from Fellowship funds will be specified at Item E.

Entitlement of Fellowship recipients to additional earnings and additional awards, where relevant, are specified at Item A.
If there is any delay or suspension or an expectation or anticipation of a delay or
suspension (of more than six (6) months) in the commencement or progress of the Fellowship, the Institution must notify ARC as soon as possible after becoming aware of the delay or expected delay.
The Institution must request and obtain ARC's written approval for the continuation of the Fellowship.
In the event of a delay or expected delay to the commencement or progress of the Fellowship, ARC may suspend, reduce or terminate payment of the Funds for the Fellowship or terminate this Deed pursuant to clause 15.
ARC, pursuant to clause 16, may recover any Funds not expended in accordance with this Deed or that remain unexpended.
If Co-funding has been identified in the Approved Budget or specified in Item G and that Co-funding;

is not arranged within the time-frame specified in the Approved Budget;
is reduced; or
ceases at any time earlier than the time specified in the Approved Budget or at Item G, 

ARC may, at its absolute discretion, by notice in writing to the Institution, terminate the Deed or terminate or reduce the scope of the Fellowship pursuant to clause 15.
The Institution shall not use the Funds for any purpose other than funding the Fellowship in respect of the Fellowship Recipient in accordance with the Application and the Approved Budget specified in Item F.

The Institution shall deposit all Funds into a bank account controlled solely by the Institution and keep proper accounts and records of its receipts and use of the Funds.
The Institution must use any apportioned interest earned on the Funds only for the purposes of the Fellowship.
The Institution shall not use the Funds for the purposes of expenditure on any
Administrative Costs associated with the Fellowship or associated with any research conducted by the Fellowship Recipient under the Fellowship.
The Institution shall only use the Funds during the Period of Funding.
The Institution shall ensure that proper accounting controls are exercised over the Fellowship, including the Funds and the Co-funding (if any).
Where the Institution has not legally committed or expended the full amount of the Funds during the Period of Funding, the Institution shall, within six (6) months after the end of the Period of Funding, pay to ARC any amount not so committed or expended, unless the Institution prior to the end of the Period of Funding advises ARC of the reasons for the non-expenditure, and requests and obtains ARC's written approval for the unexpended part of the Funds to be carried forward and for the Period of Funding to be varied.
The Institution shall, by 31 March of each year, or upon written notice given by ARC or otherwise as specified in Item H, provide ARC with a written Annual Financial Report on the Fellowship, relating to the previous calendar year.
The report shall, at least, include:

a financial statement in a form to be stipulated by ARC, specifying the total Funds received and expended by the institution;

certification by the Chief Financial Officer or their delegate that the Funds were expended in accordance with the Deed; and

the amount of Co-funding received by the Institution where Co-funding is specified as part of the Approved Budget.
The Institution shall, by 31 March of each year or upon written notice given by ARC or otherwise as specified in Item H, provide ARC with an independent annual audit report for the Institution.
The Institution shall, within six (6) months after the Period of Funding or at other times, as reasonably requested by ARC, provide a final Financial Acquittal that complies with Australian Accounting Standards, in a form to be stipulated by ARC.
The acquittal must include:

a statement of income and expenditure for the Funds received and expended by the Institution for the entire period of Funding (or a time specified by ARC);

the total interest attributable to the Funds under this Deed; and

the amount of Co-funding received by the Institution where Co-funding is specified as part of the Approved Budget.
The Financial Acquittal provided by the Institution under subclause 6.3 shall be certified by the Chief Financial Officer as notified to ARC.
The Institution shall, by 31 March of each year, or upon written notice given by ARC otherwise as specified in Item H, provide ARC with a written report, in the form required by ARC, on the progress of the performance of the Fellowship relating to the period 1 January to 31 December of the preceding year.
The Institution shall, within twelve (12) months after the Period of Funding or termination of this Deed, whichever is the earlier, provide ARC with a final report, in the form required by ARC, in respect of the Fellowship.
The Institution shall provide to ARC such information relating to the Fellowship as ARC may reasonably request for the purpose of auditing and evaluating the Fellowship.
The Institution shall:
upon fourteen (14) days' written notice given by ARC; and
at times agreed to by the parties during the performance of, or up to five (5) years after the completion of the Fellowship; make itself available for visits by officers of ARC (or any other person nominated by ARC) for the purpose of auditing and evaluating the Project.
The Institution shall, if requested in writing by ARC, make available for inspection and audit (and copying if required) by officers of, or by other persons authorised by ARC, all books, accounts, receipts, printed or electronic material and other documents relating to the expenditure by the Institution of the whole or any part of the Funds, up to five (5) years after the completion of the Fellowship.
Ownership of the Fellowship Material and Intellectual Property rights in the Fellowship Material will vest in the Institution, unless specified to the contrary in Item A.
The Institution acknowledges that NHMRC has issued Interim Guidelines for the management of Intellectual Property.
The Institution agrees to comply with the principles outlined in the Interim Guidelines, as amended from time to time by NHMRC.
Institutions must have in place policies and relevant procedures relating to Intellectual Property management which:

ensure that staff are aware of their obligations and responsibilities to protect and manage Intellectual Property;

determine the ownership and associated rights or assignment of Intellectual Property (including, without limitation, any Intellectual Property rights in relation to transgenic animals created as a result of the research performed under the Fellowship) and require personnel performing work under the Fellowship to acknowledge any relevant Intellectual Property ownership and rights; and

comply with the guidelines referred to in clause 9.2.
The parties agree that ARC has the right to use or publish any report provided by the Institution under this Deed, in whole or in part, as ARC at its absolute discretion determines.
Ownership of items of equipment and animals purchased with the Funds, shall vest and remain vested in the Institution, except:

where and to the extent that Item I specifically states that ownership vests in ARC;
where and to the extent that ARC transfers the benefit of the Funds to a New Institution in accordance with clause 11; or
where the Deed is terminated by ARC pursuant to clause 15.
Where ownership of equipment purchased by or in the possession of the Institution is vested in ARC, the Institution shall, during the Period of Funding, retain possession of the equipment, maintain it in good condition and return it at the completion of the Fellowship in the same condition in which it was received, fair wear and tear excepted.
If the Fellow moves to a New Institution before completion of research under the Fellowship, then:

upon the making of a Transfer Application to ARC by the Fellow; and
where ARC approves the Transfer Application in accordance with clause 11, the Institution shall bring into existence, sign, execute or otherwise deal with any document which may be necessary or desirable to transfer ownership of the equipment and animals purchased with the Funds relevant to the Fellowship or part of the Fellowship to the New Institution.
Where this Deed or the Fellowship under this Deed is terminated by ARC pursuant to clause 15, ARC may give such directions as ARC at its absolute discretion thinks fit concerning the transfer of ownership of the equipment and animals purchased with the Funds, and the Institution shall bring into existence, sign, execute or otherwise deal with any document which may be necessary or desirable to transfer ownership in accordance with ARC's directions.
An item of equipment or animals purchased with the Funds shall be used for the purposes of the Fellowship and to that end, the Institution shall ensure such use is subject to the control and supervision of the Fellow.
Any purchase by the Institution of clinical electro-medical equipment must only be of a type acceptable to the relevant State or Territory biomedical engineering authority or health authority, and any modification to such equipment must meet the requirements of those authorities relating to equipment to be installed in hospitals.
The Institution must list all items of equipment with a value of $10,000 or more in an assets register, which must be available for inspection by ARC upon reasonable notice.
The assets register must record the date of purchase, purchase price, description
(including any identifying marks and numbers) and location of the items of equipment.
The assets register must also record, where applicable, the details of the disposal of any items of equipment, including the sale price and to whom sold.
The Institution must ensure that equipment purchased with the Funds is made available to personnel in respect of whom funding under a ARC Fellowship (including under this Deed) is provided by ARC.
The Parties acknowledge that a Fellow may, at any time, make a Transfer Application to their Institution, so as to enable the Fellow to continue the conduct of the Fellowship or part of the Fellowship at a New Institution.
The Institution will notify ARC of the receipt of any Transfer Application.
The Institution may make submissions to ARC in relation to such Transfer Application.
ARC may, at its absolute discretion, approve the Transfer Application and may impose such conditions on that approval as ARC thinks fit.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Deed, if ARC approves a Transfer Application, ARC may cease or reduce the Funds to the Institution by such amount as ARC, at its absolute discretion, thinks appropriate.
ARC shall not be liable to pay any costs or compensation to the Institution resulting from any action by ARC under this clause.
The Institution agrees to do all necessary things and sign all necessary documents to facilitate the making of a Transfer Application and to give effect to an approval by ARC of the Transfer Application.
In relation to a Fellowship which is the subject of a Transfer Application, the Institution agrees to do all things reasonably required by ARC to facilitate the smooth and orderly transfer of the management and operation of the Fellowship to any other entity as directed by ARC within the timeframe reasonably specified by ARC, including the transfer of any unexpended Funds remaining for the Fellowship to the new Institution.
The Institution shall properly acknowledge the contribution of ARC to the Fellowship in any relevant correspondence, public announcement, advertising material, research reports or other material produced by, on behalf of or through the Institution in any manner relating to the Fellowship.
The Institution shall actively promote the research undertaken under this Fellowship in both medical and non-medical circles, and shall assist the Fellow in his or her promotion of the research.
The Institution shall ensure that the Fellowship Recipient listed at Item B perform the activities specified in the relevant Application in relation to the Fellowship and in accordance with this Deed.
Where a Fellowship Recipient is unable to perform, or to continue to perform, the activities in relation to a Fellowship, the Institution shall notify ARC immediately.
ARC may request the Institution to make available to ARC the services of Fellowship Recipients for the purposes of reviewing or assessing applications made under ARC Funding Schemes during the Period of Funding, and the Institution will use its best endeavours to facilitate compliance by the Fellowship Recipient.
If:
a Fellowship Recipient is unable to perform the activities in relation to a Fellowship; or
the Institution otherwise does not comply with this clause, 

ARC may terminate a Fellowship or this Deed, whereupon the provisions of clause 15 shall apply.
ARC may, at any time by written notice, suspend or defer any payment of the Funds or terminate this Deed or reduce the scope of a Fellowship.
If this Deed is terminated or reduced in scope, ARC shall, subject to subclause 14.3 and subclause 14.4, be liable only for:

Funds payable under this Deed up to the effective date of termination or reduction; and

any reasonable costs incurred by the Institution and directly attributable to the termination or reduction (excluding costs arising pursuant to the termination of an employment contract which exceed the equivalent of four (4) weeks' salary).
14.2 	Upon receipt of a notice of termination or reduction, the Institution must:
stop work as specified in the notice;
take all available steps to minimise loss resulting from that termination or reduction;
in the case of reduction in the scope of the Fellowship, continue work on any part of the Fellowship not affected by the notice; and
immediately repay to ARC so much of the Funds not spent or acquitted to the satisfaction of ARC as relate to any part of the Fellowship affected by the notice as at the date of the notice.
In the event of reduction in the scope of the Fellowship, ARC's obligation to pay Funds shall abate proportionately to the reduction in the Fellowship.
ARC is not liable to pay any other amount in respect of a termination or reduction under this clause.
ARC is reasonably satisfied that any of the terms and conditions of this Deed have not been complied with by the Institution;

ARC is reasonably satisfied that the terms of clause 2.2(a) or clause 2.2 (e) have not been complied with by the Institution;

ARC, by notice in writing, requests the Institution to take action to implement a Project Outcome specified in Item D and, after one month from the date of the notice, the Institution has failed to take that action;

ARC is reasonably satisfied that any statement made in the Application is incorrect or incomplete in a way which would have affected the original decision to approve the Funds;

ARC is not reasonably satisfied that the purposes and activities of the Institution or the Fellowship Recipient remain compatible with the objectives of the Fellowship;

the Institution, in the reasonable opinion of ARC, fails to adequately comply with its reporting obligations under clause 6;

as a result of any change in ARC policy or lack of funds, Funds for the Fellowship are to cease or be reduced;

ARC approves a Transfer Application;
the Institution is using the Funds for purposes other than the Fellowship;

ARC may, at its absolute discretion, by notice in writing given to the Institution:

terminate either the Fellowship or this Deed; or

suspend or reduce payment of the Funds, pending a review by ARC of the future performance of the Fellowship.
Where ARC terminates a Fellowship or this Deed under clause 15.1, ARC shall not be obliged to pay to the Institution any outstanding amount of the Funds.
If at any time ARC is reasonably satisfied that any part of the Funds has been expended or committed by the Institution other than in accordance with this Deed, ARC may recover that amount as a debt due to ARC.
If the Institution, in the reasonable opinion of ARC, fails to adequately comply with its reporting obligations under clause 6, ARC may recover, as a debt due to ARC, so much of the Funds as ARC considers reasonable, having regard to the decreased usefulness of the Fellowship to ARC for:

analysis of the conduct and outcomes of the Fellowship; and
further policy initiatives, 

and in this regard, the Institution acknowledges that the reports to be provided pursuant to this Deed provide substantial value to ARC as a source of information for these purposes.
ARC may, following the submission of any report, or following the time that the Financial Acquittal was due to be submitted under subclause 6.3, whichever is the earlier, recover from the Institution as a debt due to ARC any part of the Funds which:

ARC is not reasonably satisfied has been expended in accordance with this Deed; or

remains unexpended.
The Institution shall indemnify, at all times, ARC, its officers, employees and agents from and against all action, claims, demands, costs and expenses (including the cost of defending or settling any action, claim or demand) made, sustained, brought or prosecuted in any manner based upon, occasioned by, or attributable to any loss or damage to any person, or loss or damage to property which may arise from or be a consequence of the performance of the Fellowship.
The Institution's liability to indemnify ARC under clause 17.1 will reduce proportionately to the extent that any negligent or other tortious act or omission of ARC contributed to the relevant liability, loss or damage, or loss or expense.
Unless ARC otherwise agrees, the Institution must, for so long as any obligations remain in connection with this Deed:

effect and maintain workers' compensation insurance as required by law, and public risk insurance policies for appropriate amounts to cover all the obligations of the Institution under this Deed, including those which survive the expiration or termination of this Deed; and

upon request, provide proof of insurance acceptable to ARC.
The Institution acknowledges that ARC may be required to provide information in relation to this Funding or this Deed, as required by the operation of any law, judicial or parliamentary body or government agency.
ARC reserves the right to publicise and report on the awarding of funding to the Institution.
ARC may do this by including general information about the Institution, the Funds, title and a brief description of the Fellowship in media releases, general announcements about the Funding and in annual reports.
The Institution acknowledges that its performance of research under the Fellowship and any failure to comply with this Deed, including, without limitation:

any failure to provide full and thorough reports pursuant to clause 6; or

any careless use or misuse of the Funds, 

may be taken into consideration by ARC in any future application by the Institution for funding under any scheme.
The Institution agrees not to represent itself, and to use its best endeavours to ensure that its officers, employees, agents and subcontractors do not represent themselves, as being an officer, employee, partner or agent of ARC, or as otherwise able to bind or represent ARC.
The Institution, its officers, employees, agents and subcontractors do not by virtue of this Deed become an officer, employee, partner or agent of ARC, nor does the Institution have any power or authority to bind or represent ARC.
The Institution shall ensure that in carrying out its functions and expending the Funds, it complies with all relevant Commonwealth, State and local government laws, regulations and by-laws and including, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, all those relating to employment terms and conditions.
The Institution warrants that, at the date of signing this Deed no conflict of interest exists or is likely to arise in the performance of its obligations under this Deed.
If during the term of this Deed, a conflict of interest, or risk of a conflict of interest, or an apparent conflict of interest ('conflict, risk or apparent conflict') arises in respect of the Institution, or an employee or agent of the Institution, the Institution must immediately notify ARC in writing of that conflict, risk or apparent conflict.
If a conflict, risk or apparent conflict is experienced by the Institution, or an employee or agent of the Institution, the Institution must take such steps as ARC may reasonably require to resolve or otherwise deal with that conflict, risk or apparent conflict.
If the Institution fails to notify ARC under this clause 22, or is unable or unwilling to resolve or deal with the conflict, risk or apparent conflict as required, ARC may terminate this Deed in accordance with clause 15 (Termination and Suspension).
The Institution agrees to:

use Personal Information held in connection with the performance of the Fellowship under this Deed only for the purposes of fulfilling its obligations under this Deed;
take all reasonable measures to ensure that Personal Information in its possession or control in connection with this Deed is protected against loss and unauthorised access, use, modification or disclosure;
comply with the Privacy Act 1988 (to the extent that Act applies to the Institution);
comply with any relevant privacy law of State or Territory (to the extent that such law applies to the Institution);
regardless of whether (c) or (d) apply, comply with those Information Privacy Principles which affect the security, use and disclosure of Personal Information to the extent that the content of those Principles applies to the types of activities the Institution is undertaking under the Deed, as if the Institution were an agency as defined in the Privacy Act 1988;
cooperate with any reasonable demands or inquiries made by either ARC or the Privacy Commissioner on the basis of the exercise of the functions of the Privacy Commissioner under the Privacy Act 1988 including, but not limited to, a request from ARC to comply with a guideline concerning the handling of Personal Information;
ensure that any person who has access to any Personal Information is made aware of, and undertakes in writing, to observe the Information Privacy Principles and other obligations referred to in this clause 23;
comply, as far as practicable, with any policy guidelines laid down by ARC or issued by the Privacy Commissioner from time to time, relating to the handling of Personal Information;
comply, as far as practicable, with any direction of ARC to observe any recommendation of the Privacy Commissioner relating to any acts or practices of the Institution that the Privacy Commissioner considers breach the Institution's obligations set out in this clause 23; and
indemnify ARC as the circumstances require, in respect of any loss, liability or expense suffered or incurred by ARC, arising out of or in connection with a breach of the obligations of the Institution under this clause 23 or any misuse of Personal Information by the Institution or any disclosure by the Institution in breach of an obligation or confidence, whether arising under the Privacy Act 1988 or otherwise.
Before resorting to external dispute resolution mechanisms (except for urgent interlocutory relief) the Parties must attempt to settle by negotiation any dispute in relation to this Deed, including by referring the matter to persons who may have authority to intervene and direct some form of resolution.
If a dispute is not settled by the Parties within twenty (20) Working Days of one Party first sending to the other Party written notice of the dispute, the dispute may be the subject of court proceedings or may be submitted to some alternative dispute resolution mechanism as may be agreed in writing between the Parties.
Notwithstanding the existence of a dispute, the Institution must continue to perform its obligations under this Deed.
Any notice, request or other communication to be given or served pursuant to this Deed shall be in writing and addressed to the other party at the address as set out in the schedule under Item J [NOTICES] or such other address as a Party may notify the other party from time to time.
A notice, request or other communication will be deemed to be received:
if delivered by hand, upon delivery;
if sent by pre-paid ordinary post within Australia, upon the expiration of two (2) business days after the date on which it was sent;
if sent by facsimile, on the business day following the day of dispatch provided that the sender receives an "OK" code in respect of the transmission and is not notified by the Institution by close of business of the next business day following the day of dispatch that the transmission was illegible; or
if transmitted electronically, upon receipt by the sender of an acknowledgment that the communication has been properly transmitted to the recipient.
The Institution shall notify ARC in writing of the name and title of the Responsible Officer.
All correspondence and reports relating to the Funds shall be made by or through the Responsible Officer and all documents signed by the Responsible Officer shall be binding on the Institution.
The Responsible Officer shall supply all necessary information reasonably requested by ARC in relation to the purposes for which the Funds are used.
The Institution shall not without the written consent of ARC assign, mortgage, charge or encumber this Deed or any benefit, moneys or rights obtained or to be obtained or obligation under this Deed.
The Executive Officer may exercise, on behalf of ARC, any of the powers conferred upon ARC by this Deed.
The provisions of clauses 2.2(f), 5, 6, 7.1, 9, 10.4, 11.5, 11.6, 12, 14, 15.2, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29 and 30 will survive the expiration or earlier termination of this Deed.
Except as provided by this clause, all taxes, duties and government charges imposed or levied in Australia or overseas in connection with the performance of this Deed shall be borne by the Institution.
The Funds payable ("Original Funds Payable") to the Institution by ARC do not include an amount to cover any liability of the Institution for Goods and Services Tax ("GST") on any supplies made under this Deed which are taxable supplies within the meaning of A New Tax System (Goods and Services Tax) Act 1999 (the "GST Act").
If a supply made by the Institution under this Deed is a taxable supply under the GST Act, the Institution may, by notice in writing to ARC, increase the Original Funds Payable by ARC by the amount of GST that is payable by the Institution on that part of the Original Funds Payable which relates to the taxable supply as if that part of the Original Funds Payable is the value of the supply for the purposes of the GST Act.
If required by ARC, the Institution shall substantiate to ARC's reasonable satisfaction how any change in the amounts payable by ARC determined under this clause have been calculated, before such changes will take effect.
In relation to any taxable supplies made under this Deed, the Institution agrees to issue ARC with a tax invoice in accordance with the GST Act.
The Institution must meet the following clearance requirements and obtain and maintain as required, the necessary approvals for the duration of the Fellowship:

All research involving humans shall be conducted in accordance with the requirements of the 'National Statement on Ethical Conduct in Research Involving Humans' (1999) and associated guidelines, as amended from time to time.
Approval shall be obtained from the relevant Human Research Ethics Committee (HREC) before commencement of the research conducted under the Fellowship, and shall be maintained for the duration of the Fellowship and re-obtained if required for the duration of the Fellowship.
Institutions and HRECs shall be responsible for monitoring the conduct of the research conducted under the Fellowship and ensuring that ethical approval is obtained for amendments to any research ocnducted under the Fellowship.
Experiments involving the use of animals shall be conducted, and experimental animals shall be housed, maintained and controlled, in accordance with the current 'Australian Code of Practice for the Care and Use of Animals for Scientific Purposes' and any additional policy statements adopted by ARC.
The Institution shall ensure that any research conducted under the Fellowship shall be demonstrated to be acceptable to the appropriate Animal Ethics Committee of the particular institution, as shall intended variations, with ethical implications, to any already approved research protocol.
Any research conducted under a Fellowship involving the above will be subject to prior clearance by the relevant human research ethics committee.
The Institution must ensure that, before experimental organisms are imported into
Australia for the purposes of research conducted under a Fellowship, the Institution or the Recipient of the Fellowship must obtain authorisation for the importation from the appropriate Commonwealth and State authorities.
Any biological material accumulated during the course of a Fellowship shall be transferred to an Australian body with statutory responsibility for control of such material.
If no such body is available to take control of the biological material then the Institution shall dispose of the material in accordance with the Institution's established safeguards.
All work involving recombinant nucleic acids must conform to the requirements set out in the Gene Technology Act 2000 (Cth) as amended from time to time.
If a Fellowship involves the preparation and/or use of recombinant nucleic acids constructed in vitro from sources that do not ordinarily recombine genetic information, approval in writing by the Institution's Biosafety Committee must be obtained.
If a Fellowship involves or concerns the use of recombinant DNA techniques on animals or humans then, before the proposed research commences, the Institution shall ensure that the research has been approved by the relevant Ethics or Biosafety Committee of the Institution.
The Institution shall retain all Certificates relating to the above and will provide such evidence to ARC if required to do so.
The Institution must ensure that research under the Fellowship is conducted in accordance with the principles outlined in the following NHMRC guidelines:

The parties will co-operate to: 
identify Projects of interest to the parties; 
facilitate the development of proposals for Projects between the two organizations including exploring possibilities for grants and other forms of funding;
determine the terms and conditions of the agreements under which each Project will be conducted and the intellectual property arising from the Project will be owned and licensed ("Collaboration Agreements"); 
establish those Projects; and
conduct an annual review of current and future Projects approximately one (1) week prior to the anniversary of the execution of this MOU.
Subject to the terms of any Collaboration Agreement agreed to, each party will have the right, in any field related to the Project or otherwise, to:
conduct business or research independently, whether or not with third parties;
continue existing commitments, or make new ones; and
exploit or otherwise take advantage of its intellectual property.
The parties confirm their intention to negotiate and settle the terms of a Collaboration Agreement in respect of which each Project will take place.
Each Collaboration Agreement will include provisions dealing with, amongst other things:
the provision of a Project plan pursuant to which the Project will be carried out which will include information pertaining to technical objectives, statement of work, deliverables, schedule, decision gates, resource requirements and costs;
the funding arrangements for the Project;
the provision for the parties to hold periodic Project review meetings to assess the management and the progress of the Project and the status of any expenditure;
provisions dealing with intellectual property, including ownership and exploitation; and
relevant commercial arrangements between the University and [Partner short name].
The parties acknowledge that for any agreement to be binding on them, it must be in writing and signed by a duly authorised representative of each of the University and [Partner short name].
For the term of this MOU, each party may appoint one of its employees to act as its representative in relation to this MOU (each such employee being a "Representative").
The Representative of an appointing party will be responsible for:
managing, overseeing or co-ordinating that party's relationship with the other party;
identifying any commercial issues that arise between the parties and referring those issues to the appropriate person within the Representative's organisation;
discussing issues arising out of this MOU or a Collaboration Agreement with the Representative of the other party; and
co-ordinating the exchange of information between the parties.
The parties may exchange Confidential Information relevant to proposed Projects.
Each party undertakes to treat as confidential all Confidential Information obtained from the other party and undertakes not to divulge any Confidential Information to any person without first obtaining the consent of the other party in writing.
Each Party will take such reasonable steps to provide for the safe custody of any and all Confidential Information in its possession and to prevent unauthorised access thereto or use thereof.
At any time upon the written request of a party, the other party must return any documents which embody Confidential Information and must not keep any copies in any form.
The term of this MOU is a period of one (1) year from the date of execution.
The MOU will be automatically renewed for a further period of one (1) year unless one party notifies the other party in writing that they do not wish to renew the MOU at the completion of the annual review of current and future Projects.
This MOU may be terminated by mutual consent of the parties.
Either party may terminate this MOU upon one (1) month written notice to the other.
A Collaboration Agreement made pursuant to clause 2 of this MOU will survive termination or expiration of this MOU.
This MOU may only be amended by agreement in writing between the parties but not otherwise.
The University and [Partner short name] acknowledge that each of them is free to undertake [insert field] projects on their own or in conjunction with third persons, and that the parties will co-operate only in circumstances where each of them agrees co-operation is for their benefit and each is satisfied that the specific provisions covering that co-operation are appropriate.
With the exception of clause 4, this MOU is not binding and the parties do not intend that it or any part of it be binding.
It serves only as a record of the parties' separate intentions pending possible execution of a Collaboration Agreement as contemplated by clause 2.
Nothing in this MOU will oblige a party to or will constitute a representation by either party that it will enter into a Collaboration Agreement with the other party or will conduct any Project.
This MOU will be governed by and construed in accordance with the law in force in the State of Victoria and the Courts of Victoria will have jurisdiction in respect of all matters arising under the terms of this MOU.


the Subscriber will pay the Fees in respect of its subscription to Escape Today's Services, in accordance with this Agreement; 
Escape Today will supply the Escape Today Services via its Online Portal;
the Subscriber will provide its Employees with access to the Escape Today Online Portal, in accordance with clause 2.4 of this Agreement.
the Customer will be able to access the web pages advertising the Provider's Services.
The Term of this Agreement is the period specified in item 6 of Schedule 1 and unless renewed by the Parties in writing, this Agreement will end at the end of the Term;
This Agreement may be renewed for a further term upon such terms and conditions as agreed between the parties.
By signing this Agreement, Escape Today, as part of the Subscriber's Subscription, agrees to provide:
the Online Portal consisting of personalised:
employer portal; and
customer portal;
upon request by the Subscriber, arrangements for booking a Provider's Service to be provided to a Customer which will be provided subject to the Provider's usual terms and conditions and the special conditions set out in Schedule 2;
Additional Services, available upon request by the Subscriber and agreement by Escape Today;
a weekly newsletter; and
an online reporting service.
By signing this Agreement, the Subscriber agrees:
that it will pay the Subscription fees as stated in item 7 of Schedule 1; 
that it will notify Escape Today of any special conditions or requirements that they require their Escape Today Service to include;
will comply with clause 6.2.
The Provider will pay to Escape Today the fees as agreed in item 7 of Schedule 1.
The Parties agree that the Subscriber will pay Escape Today the monthly Subscription Fee as listed in item 7 of Schedule 1 within the agreed time, upon receipt of a Tax Invoice issued in accordance with clause 4.4.
All fees and payments will be paid by the method agreed in item 7 of Schedule 1.
Escape Today reserves the right to review the fees in line with the growth of the business, and will notify the Provider of any changes as necessary (item 8 of Schedule 1).
Except as otherwise provided by this clause, all consideration payable under this Agreement in relation to any supply is exclusive of GST.
Recipient must pay
If GST is payable in respect of any supply made by a supplier under this Agreement, subject to clause 4.4 the recipient will pay to the supplier an amount equal to the GST payable on the supply at the same time and in the same manner as the consideration for the supply is to be provided under this Agreement.
Escape Today will issue the Supplier with an electronic Tax Invoice at the end of each month;
the Tax Invoice will state the fees payable by the Supplier, and will outline the type of fee and total amount due; 
The Tax Invoice amount will be paid within 30 days of the end of the following month; and
The Tax Invoice will be a valid tax invoice for the purposes of the GST Act.
Responsibility of Subscriber
Escape Today is not the provider of a Provider's Service and cannot and does not accept any responsibility in relation to this.
The Subscriber is responsible for obtaining and maintaining all insurances to adequately cover the Subscriber and any Customers including in regards to their participation in any activity, service or otherwise in which they engage provided by a Provider.
Escape Today cannot and the Subscriber further understands that Escape Today will not take responsibility for attaining such insurance policies.
The Subscriber indemnifies and holds harmless Escape Today from any and all actions, suits and claims of any nature which may be made by any person (including any officer, employee or agent of the Subscriber) against Escape Today in respect of the provision of a Provider's Service by a Provider or any matter arising out of the provision of the Provider's Services.
The Subscriber warrants:
that it will not use the Escape Today Online Portal in any un-authorised way, or re-produce, distribute of give access to any third party not provided for in this agreement;
that it will not simultaneously subscribe to a parallel system of Service Providers which replicate the service offered by Escape Today with any other third party;
that it will not engage in any conduct which amounts to a contravention of the Trade Practices Act 1974 or any State Fair Trading Act;
that the content of any material provided by the Subscriber, or any of its Employees, to Escape Today in respect of the Escape Today's Services including but not limited to the online discussion forum, is not likely to mislead or deceive, is not defamatory, offensive, obscene or otherwise illegal.
Nothing in this document is to be read as excluding, restricting or modifying the application of any legislation which by law cannot be excluded, restricted or modified.
Any representation, warranty, condition or undertaking which (but for this clause) would be implied in this document by law, is excluded to the fullest extent permitted by law.
Escape Today is not liable to the Supplier for any claim arising under this document in contract, tort, statute or otherwise, as a result of a Force Majeure.
The liability of Escape Today for breach of a condition or warranty implied by the Trade Practices Act 1974 (other than under Section 69), namely section 68A Trade Practices Act 1974, in relation to the supply of goods or services not of a kind ordinarily acquired for personal domestic or household use or consumption, is, at the option of Escape Today, limited to:
in the case of goods - the replacement of the goods, the supply of equivalent goods, the payment of the cost of replacing the goods or the payment of the cost of acquiring equivalent goods;  or
in the case of services - the supplying of the services again or the payment of the cost of having the services supplied again.
In the event that the liability arises through the provision of a recreational services as provided for by section 68B Trade Practices Act 1974, Escape Today's liability excludes liability for death or personal injury in accordance with the section.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this document and to the fullest extent permitted by law, Escape Today will not be liable to the Provider for consequential, indirect or special losses or damages of any kind (including, without limitation, loss of profit, loss or corruption of data, business interruption or indirect costs) suffered by the Provider as a result of any act or omission whatsoever of Escape Today, its employees, agents or sub-contractors.
Escape Today may terminate this Agreement immediately without compensation if:
the Subscriber is placed into administration; or
there is any act of serious misconduct or any other serious or persistent breach of any of the terms of this Agreement.
If the Subscriber defaults in the performance of any obligation under this Agreement, Escape Today may give notice to the Subscriber specifying the default and requiring the Subscriber to:
rectify the default; and
show cause why Escape Today should not exercise the powers contained in this clause.
If, within seven days after the service of the notice specifying the default, the Subscriber fails to rectify the default or fails to show, to the satisfaction of Escape Today, why it should not exercise its powers, Escape Today may terminate this Agreement.
Nothing in this clause limits the power of Escape Today to terminate the Agreement immediately under clause 8.1.
Either party may terminate this Agreement, without being required to give a reason, by the giving of two weeks written notice to the other party.
The Subscriber must not, whether during or after the term of this Agreement make any improper use of:
any information or trade secrets of Escape Today;
the position of Escape Today on any confidential matter; or
any other information which may be detrimental to the interests of Escape Today, or its Customers, or of any other person who has provided it to Escape Today on a confidential basis including but not limited to, any Customer list, unless the Subscriber is required to disclose the information by law.
The Subscriber must use its best endeavours to prevent the improper publication or disclosure of any such information by anyone else; and 
the Subscriber is responsible for ensuring its employees and any other relevant person complies with this clause.
The termination or expiry of this Agreement for whatever reason does not affect or derogate from the obligations of the Provider under this clause, which obligations the Contractor enters on behalf of itself and its associates, whether they are its employees or not.
The Subscriber agrees that the Intellectual Property Rights of any sort in any documents or web pages produced in the course of the Escape Today Services, are owned solely by Escape Today.
With the effect from the commencement of this Agreement, Escape Today grants the Subscriber a non-exclusive non-transferable licence for the Term to use the Escape Today Intellectual Property Rights.
The Subscriber acknowledges and agrees that it gains no ownership rights or interest in any of the Escape Today Intellectual Property Rights under this Agreement.
The Subscriber acknowledges and agrees that:
all Escape Today Intellectual Property Rights or any improvements to Escape Today Intellectual Property Rights made by the Subscriber or its employees in the course of this Agreement vest in Escape Today immediately upon creation; and 
the Subscriber will do all things necessary, including executing and procuring that its employees execute all documents requested by Escape Today, to vest the legal title in such Intellectual Property Rights in Escape Today.
A notice or other communication required or permitted, under this document, to be served on a person must be in writing and may be served:
personally on the person;
by leaving it at the person's current address for service;
by posting it by prepaid post addressed to that person at the person's current address for service; 
by facsimile to the person's current number for service; or
by email to the person's current email address for service.
Any party may change the address or facsimile number for service by giving notice to the other parties.
If the person to be served is a company, the notice or other communication may be served on it at the company's registered office.
A notice or other communication is deemed served:
if served personally or left at the person's address, upon service;
if posted within Australia to an Australian address, two Business Days after posting and in any other case, seven Business Days after posting;
if served by facsimile, at the time indicated on the transmission report produced by the sender's facsimile machine indicating that the facsimile was sent in its entirety to the addressee's facsimile;
if served by email, subject to clause 11.3.5, at the time the email containing the notice left the sender's email system, unless the sender receives notification that the email containing the notice was not received by the recipient;
if received after 6.00pm in the place of receipt or on a day which is not a Business Day, at 9.00am on the next Business Day.
This document may only be varied or replaced by a document duly executed by the parties.
Each party must promptly execute and deliver all documents and take all other action necessary or desirable to effect, perfect or complete the transactions contemplated by this document.
Each party must pay its own legal costs and expenses in relation to the negotiation, preparation and execution of this document and other documents referred to in it, unless expressly stated otherwise.
A single or partial exercise or waiver of a right relating to this document does not prevent any other exercise of that right or the exercise of any other right.
No party will be liable for any loss or expenses incurred by another party caused or contributed to by the waiver, exercise, attempted exercise, failure to exercise or delay in the exercise of a right.
It is agreed that the Provider supplies the Provider's Service to the Subscriber or Customer or both on the Provider's usual terms and conditions agreed for the supply.
In the event and to the extent of any inconsistency between the Provider's usual terms and conditions and the following special conditions, these special conditions are to prevail.
The Parties expressly acknowledge and agree that:
Escape Today is not the provider of any of the Services provided or to be provided by the Provider, and will not at any time be construed as the employer of the Provider or of any sub-provider engaged by the Provider;
this Agreement is deemed to be read in conjunction with all other related Agreements between the Employer and Escape Today and the Provider and Escape Today; and 
Escape Today is expressly excluded from any liability considered by this Agreement.
In the event that the Subscriber pays directly for the Provider's Services:
the Provider will issue an invoice to the Subscriber in accordance with clause 4.4;
the Subscriber will pay the Activity Fee to the Provider in accordance with clause 4.4; and 
The Provider will account to Escape Today for all fees due under the Agreement as between the parties
In the event that the Subscriber purchases a Reward from Escape Today;
the Customer will redeem the price of the Reward against their chosen Provider activity from the Provider;
The Provider will invoice Escape Today in accordance with clause 4.4;
Escape Today will deduct the commission charge owing for their facilitation of the transaction, and pay the Provider the outstanding amount.
In the event that the Customer pays, the Customer may either:
pay the Provider directly for the activity, and receive personally an invoice in accordance with clause 4.4; or 
Purchase a reward from Escape Today and redeem it against their chosen activity of the Service Provider in return for payment, the Provider will provide the Provider's Service to the Customer, 
and the Provider will pay the relevant fees to Escape Today.
Nothing in this document is to be read as excluding, restricting or modifying the application of any legislation which by law cannot be excluded, restricted or modified.
Any representation, warranty, condition or undertaking which (but for this clause) would be implied in this document by law, is excluded to the fullest extent permitted by law.
Parties are not liable between themselves and each other for any claim arising under this document in contract, tort, statute or otherwise, as a result of a Force Majeure.
Without limitation to any other clause of this Agreement, the liability of Escape Today to each other Party is limited to the amount paid by the Party (or, in the case of the Customer, the amount paid to the Subscriber), to Escape Today in fees during the 6 months prior to the date the liability arises.
Escape Today will not be in any way responsible to the Subscriber or Customer for the Provider's Service which may arise under any Agreement between the Provider, Employee and/or Employer respectively.
The Subscriber jointly and severally indemnify and hold harmless Escape Today for all claims (arising under contract, tort, statute or otherwise), which may be made against Escape Today or arise as a consequence of or in connection with the supply of the Provider's Services by a Customer or any person claiming as a result of personal injury to or death of the Customer.
The liability of the Provider for breach of a condition or warranty implied by the Trade Practices Act 1974 (other than under Section 69), namely section 68A Trade Practices Act 1974, in relation to the supply of goods or services not of a kind ordinarily acquired for personal domestic or household use or consumption, is, at the option of the Provider, limited to:
in the case of goods - the replacement of the goods, the supply of equivalent goods, the payment of the cost of replacing the goods or the payment of the cost of acquiring equivalent goods;  or
in the case of services - the supplying of the services again or the payment of the cost of having the services supplied again.
In the event that the liability arises under section 74 of the Trade Practices Act 1974 (TPA) through the provision of a recreational service as provided for by section 68B TPA, the Provider's liability excludes liability for death or personal injury.
In the event that the liability arises under Part 2A of the Fair Trading Act 1999 (Vic) (FTA) through the provision of recreational services under section 32N of the FTA, Escape Today's liability excludes liability for death or personal injury.
Consequential Losses
Notwithstanding any other provision of this document and to the fullest extent permitted by law, none of the Parties under this Agreement will be liable to another Party under this Agreement for consequential, indirect or special losses or damages of any kind (including, without limitation, loss of profit, loss or corruption of data, business interruption or indirect costs) suffered by a party to this Agreement as a result of any act or omission whatsoever of a Party, its employees, agents or sub-contractors.

The Administering Organisation has been awarded Funding by the ARC to conduct the Project titled "........", LP09XXXXX with the Partner Organisation(s) and Collaborating Organisation(s).
In formally accepting the Funding for the Project the Administering Organisation has entered into the Funding Agreement with the ARC.
The Administering Organisation, the Partner Organisation(s), and the Collaborating Organisation(s) have agreed to enter into this Agreement, which sets out how the Project will be conducted, Student involvement, the ownership of Intellectual Property and related issues.
"Confidential Information" means all know-how, financial information and other commercially valuable information in whatever form including unpatented inventions, trade secrets, formulae, graphs, drawings, designs, biological materials, samples, devices, models and other materials of whatever description which a Party claims is confidential to itself and over which it has full control and includes all other such information that may be in the possession of a Party's employees or management.
Information is not confidential if:
it is or  becomes part of the public domain unless it came into the public domain by a breach of confidentiality;
it is obtained lawfully from a third party without any breach of confidentiality;
it is already known by the recipient Party (as shown by its written record) before the date of disclosure to it; 
it is independently developed by an employee of the recipient Party who has no knowledge of the disclosure under this Agreement; 
required to be disclosed by a court, rule or governmental law or regulation, or the rules of any stock exchange, provided that the party making the disclosure provides prompt notice to the other party of any such requirement; or
it is required to be disclosed pursuant to this Agreement or the Funding Agreement.
words which are defined in the Funding Agreement have the same meaning when used in this Agreement unless another definition has been used in clause 1.1; 
words denoting the singular include the plural and vice versa;
words denoting natural persons include corporations and vice versa;
words denoting any gender include all genders;
headings are for convenience only and do not affect interpretation;
reference to any Party to this Agreement or any other relevant agreement or document includes that Party's successors and permitted assigns;
reference to any document or agreement is deemed to include references to such document or agreement as amended, novated, supplemented, varied or replaced from time to time;
references to any legislation or to any provision of any legislation include any modification or re-enactment of such legislation or any legislative provisions substituted for, and all legislation and statutory instruments issued under, such legislation; and
any reference to "GST", "input tax credit," "recipient", "supplier", "supply", "tax invoice" and "taxable supply" has the meaning given to those expressions in the A New Tax System (Goods and Services Tax) Act 1999.
This Agreement will begin on the Commencement Date and, subject to earlier termination will terminate on the Project Completion Date unless otherwise varied with the approval of the Parties and, if applicable, with the prior approval of the ARC.
Each Party must carry out their role on the Project as outlined in the Proposal or, if varied in accordance with the Funding Agreement, as set out in Schedule B.
Each Party must conduct the Project in accordance with generally accepted professional, scientific, ethical, business and financial principles and standards and exercise all due care and skill.
The Parties acknowledge that research work is of its nature uncertain and that particular outcomes and results from the Project cannot be guaranteed.
The Parties acknowledge that the conduct of the Project may be subject to the Administering Organisation and the Collaborating Organisation(s) obtaining ethics approval and other forms of statutory approval.
The Administering Organisation and the Collaborating Organisation(s) must use their reasonable endeavours to gain such approval prior to the commencement of the Project and during the Project (as relevant), including by reviewing and revising (where appropriate) the Project's scope.
However, in the event that approval is still unsuccessful or the ARC does not approve a change in the Project's scope, the Administering Organisation may terminate the relevant Collaborating Institution(s) involvement in the Project in accordance with clause 14.4, without penalty to that Collaborating Institution.
The Parties acknowledge having read and understood the Funding Agreement, a pro forma copy of which can be accessed from the ARC website at: 
www.arc.gov.au/ncgp/lp/lp_fundingagreement.htm
The Partner Organisation(s) and the Collaborating Organisation(s) acknowledge that although each is not a party to the Funding Agreement, the provisions of the Funding Agreement must be read with and form part of this Agreement.
Where there is any inconsistency between the provisions of this Agreement and those of the Funding Agreement, the Funding Agreement must prevail.
All Parties agree to comply with the Funding Agreement to the extent that it applies to them and assist the Administering Organisation to comply with the terms of the Funding Agreement and will not do anything which will cause the Administering Organisation to be in breach of the Funding Agreement.
Each Partner Organisation warrants that:
the Partner Organisation's relationship with the Chief Investigators and APDI Fellows on the Project does not and will not in the future constitute a potential or actual conflict of interest and that where a potential or conflict of interest does arise in the future the Partner Organisation will immediately report the potential or actual conflict of interest to the Administering Organisation and the other parties;
the Partner Organisation satisfies the requirements for a Partner Organisation stipulated in Appendix 2 of the Funding Rules.
Without limiting the other provisions of this clause 4 and in accordance with clause 10.2(f) of the Funding Agreement, the Partner Organisation(s) indemnify the Administering Organisation against any loss, liability or expense incurred or suffered by the Administering Organisation as a result of any breach by the Administering Organisation of the Funding Agreement caused by the Administering Organisation's reliance on the warranty given by the Partner Organisation(s) under clause 4.3.
All Parties agree to ensure that the Funding is used in accordance with the Funding Agreement, including in relation to payment of the salaries of any Specified Personnel or the payment of stipends to support any postgraduate research Students.
Each Party must provide its Contributions to the Project at the time, location and in the manner as set out in Schedule B.
Except as stated otherwise in the Proposal, the cash component of each Partner Organisation(s) Contribution must be paid up-front annually for each year during the term of the Project and within thirty (30) days of receipt of a valid tax invoice  from the Administering Organisation, in accordance with the following:
in relation to the first of the cash component of the Partner Organisation(s) Contributions, on the Commencement Date; and
in relation to any subsequent cash component of the Partner Organisation(s) Contributions, on each anniversary of the Commencement Date.
Each Collaborating Organisation will be paid the annual amount set out in Schedule B within thirty (30) days of receipt by the Administering Organisation of a valid tax invoice subject always to the Administering Organisation receiving Funding in relation to the Project from the ARC and, if relevant, cash Contributions from each Partner Organisation.
The Parties acknowledge and agree that should the Partner Organisation(s) not make the cash component of the Partner Organisation(s) Contribution to the Administering Organisation within thirty (30) days of receipt of invoice, as provided for in clause 5.2 , the full amount of the invoice shall be a debt due to the Administering Organisation and the Administering Organisation may recover such amount without further proof of debt.
The Parties appoint as the Project Leader the person identified as the first-named Chief Investigator in the Proposal.
The Chief Investigators are responsible for the day to day administration of the Project.
As soon as practicable after the Commencement Date, the Chief Investigators, Partner Investigators and the Partner Organisation(s) may establish a Project Management Committee for the Project.
The Project Management Committee will have general oversight of the conduct of the Project including to discuss and determine matters relating to the conduct, content and scope of the Project.
The following matters may be considered at the first meeting of the Project Management Committee:
frequency and format of meetings to discuss the progress of the Project;
obligations to take and keep minutes of meetings; and
protocols for making decisions in relation to the conduct of the Project.
The Project Management Committee may make decisions and or give consents required under this Agreement in order to carry out the Project.
The decision of the majority of the members of the Project Management Committee shall be binding.
If there is an even number of votes, the Project Leader shall have the deciding vote.
The management structure and decision making protocols agreed by the Parties under this clause 6 must be observed by the Parties for the duration of the Project (if applicable).
For the avoidance of doubt, the Project Management Committee will not have the power to vary this Agreement and all such variations must comply with clause 16.11 (Variation).
The Parties agree that the Background Intellectual Property which a Party makes available for the conduct of the Project will remain the property of that Party.
Each Party grants to each other a royalty-free, non-exclusive licence to use its Background Intellectual Property to the extent necessary to carry out the Project but for no other purpose.
No representations or warranties are made or given in relation to Background Intellectual Property, however each Party making available Background Intellectual Property acknowledges that to the best of its knowledge at the time of entering into this Agreement, such Background Intellectual Property when used in accordance with this Agreement will not infringe any third party Intellectual Property rights.
Each Party must maintain reasonable, up to date and accurate records regarding the conduct and conclusions of its part of the Project and its respective Contributions 
The Collaborating Organisation(s) will provide a financial acquittal, addressed to the Administering Organisation's Research Office, by 31 January of each year for the period of the Project for Funding transferred to them in the previous calendar year, to enable the Administering Organisation to meet its reporting and financial management obligations under the Funding Agreement.
Project Intellectual Property will be owned by the Administering Organisation.
Each Partner Organisation and Collaborating Organisation assigns to the Administering Organisation all its right, title and interest in such Project Intellectual Property and agrees to do all things reasonably necessary to give effect to such ownership and assignment (including, without limitation, ensuring its employees, contractors and Students do the same).
Administering Organisation grants to the Partner Organisation(s) an irrevocable, non-transferable, non-exclusive, free of cost licence to use the Project Intellectual Property for internal, non-commercial purposes.
All Information, know-how, discovery, innovation or invention and Intellectual Property Rights resulting from or arising in the course of the Project which were not reasonably anticipated, in the majority opinion of the Project Management Committee ("Serendipitous Discovery") shall be owned by the Party making or creating the Serendipitous Discovery.
Each Party grants to each other Party a royalty-free, non-transferable, non-exclusive licence to use the Serendipitous Discovery made by that party for the sole purpose of carrying out the Project.
The Administering Organisation grants to the Collaborating Organisation(s) an irrevocable, non-transferable, non-exclusive, free of cost licence to use the Project Intellectual Property for teaching and research purposes.
Any Student involved in the Project as part of a postgraduate degree will own copyright in their thesis.
Confidential Information and Personal Information
Confidential Information disclosed during the Project must only be used for the express purpose for which it was disclosed.
Each Party must treat all Confidential Information owned by another Party as confidential and must not, without the prior written consent of the other Party, disclose or permit the same to be disclosed to any third person.
Each Party must ensure that its employees, officers and agents comply with the obligations of confidentiality imposed upon it by this clause.
Each Party's obligations under this clause survive termination of this Agreement.
Each Party acknowledges that it will comply with the Privacy Act 1988 (Cth) and the National Privacy Principles in the use, collection, storage or disclosure of any personal and/or health information collected or used during the Project.
The Parties recognise that the Project has a strong public good element and that public dissemination of the Project outcomes is important to the Project's success.
In this context, the Parties agree that publication of Project outcomes is a key objective of the Project.
The Project Management Committee may develop Project Publication Protocols for the written approval of all Parties in writing and must distribute the final agreed version of the Project Publication Protocols to all Parties.
In the absence of Project Publication Protocols, the publication procedures as set out in clauses 11.5 to 11.7  will apply.
The Parties must acknowledge the contribution and support of the ARC in accordance with clause 28.2 of the Funding Agreement.
Any Party ("Publishing Party") proposing to publish or publicly present material incorporating Project Intellectual Property that has not already been published, shall submit the proposed publication or abstract of the presentation to Project Management Committee for approval at least thirty (30) days prior to the date of proposed submission for publication or presentation.
Where the proposed publication or presentation contains Confidential Information, the Party to which the Confidential Information belongs may require the proposed publication or presentation be amended so as not to contain that information.
The Party to which the Confidential Information belongs shall notify the Publishing Party in writing of their required amendments within twenty-one (21) days of receipt of the proposed publication or abstract and shall not unreasonably withhold or delay their approval for publication or presentation.
If any Party fails to respond to the Publishing Party within the said twenty-one (21) day period, that Party's approval will be taken to have been given to the relevant publication or presentation.
The Partner Organisation(s) acknowledge that the Administering Organisation and the Collaborating Organisation(s) have obligations under their respective Administering Organisation statutes to ensure that any student involved in the Project is able to complete the requirements of his or her candidature, and that this obligation extends to submitting the Student's thesis for examination and depositing in the library a copy of the Student's completed thesis or work submitted for a higher degree.
Nothing in this Agreement affects the operation of the Administering Organisation or Collaborating Organisation's relevant statutes, regulations or policies or creates any obligations contrary to those statutes, regulations or policies.
Subject to clause4.4, each Party excludes all warranties, terms, conditions, representations or undertakings, whether statutory or otherwise, to the full extent permitted by the laws of the Commonwealth of Australia or of any State or Territory of Australia having jurisdiction, including:
any warranty of merchantability of or fitness for a particular purpose in respect of the Background Intellectual Property and Project Intellectual Property; and
any warranty that the Background Intellectual Property and Project Intellectual Property does not infringe any third party's Intellectual Property rights.
To the extent that any warranties, terms, conditions, representations or undertakings cannot be excluded at law, liability should be limited to: 
re-performing its Contribution to the Project; or
at its election, payment of the cost of having its Contribution to the Project re-performed.
The Parties may immediately terminate this Agreement by mutual consent in writing.
The Administering Organisation may terminate this Agreement if the ARC ceases to provide all or any part of the Grant to the Administering Organisation, or if the Funding Agreement is terminated for any reason.
The Administering Organisation must use reasonable endeavours to provide all Parties with notice that the Funding Agreement has been terminated as soon as possible.
A Party to this Agreement may withdraw from this Project upon giving three (3) months notice in writing to the Administering Organisation where for reasons beyond its control, including, but not limited to, a failure to obtain any required ethics or statutory approval, it is unable to perform its obligations under this Agreement.
A withdrawing Party must perform all obligations up to the date of withdrawal and will be liable for the full cash amount of its Contribution in the year that it withdraws.
The Administering Organisation may terminate the involvement of a Party under this Agreement immediately upon the giving of written notice to that Party if:
that Party is in breach of a material obligation of this Agreement and has failed to rectify that breach within twenty-one (21) days of written notice by the Administering Organisation;
that Party is insolvent within the meaning of the Corporations Act, or a court is required under the Corporations Act to presume that that Party is insolvent;
an application or order is made, proceedings are commenced, a resolution is passed or proposed in a notice of meeting or an application to a court or other steps are taken for that Party's winding up or dissolution, or that Party enters into an arrangement, compromise or composition with or assignment for the benefit of its creditors or any of them;
an administrator is appointed over all or any of that Party's assets or undertaking, any step preliminary to the appointment of an administrator is taken, or a controller within the meaning of the Corporations Act or similar officer is appointed to all of that Party's assets or undertaking; or
the conditions of clause 3.4 are not satisfied.
Subject to clause 16.1, if a Force Majeure Event continues for more than 30 days, the other Parties many jointly expel any Party the subject of the Force Majeure Event from participation in the Project in accordance with this clause 14.
Where the involvement of a Party is terminated under clause 14.4 or a Party withdraws from the Project under clause 14.3, the Administering Organisation will consult with the remaining Parties to determine whether or not the Project can proceed without that Party in whole or on a reduced scale.
Where the Administering Organisation elects to proceed, the Parties agree to do all things necessary to amend the Agreement to reflect the new arrangements.
Where the Administering Organisation determines that the Project cannot proceed, the Administering Organisation may terminate this Agreement by notice in writing to the other Parties.
If this Agreement is terminated under this clause, the Administering Organisation and the Collaborating Institutions may independently continue the Project and access the Partner Organisations' Background Intellectual Property and Confidential Information to the extent necessary for any Student involved in the Project to complete the Student's course work and the Student's thesis.
Termination of this Agreement for whatever cause is without prejudice to any rights or obligations that have accrued and are owing prior to such termination.
A Party must not commence legal proceedings relating to this Agreement unless the Party wishing to commence proceedings has complied with this clause 15.
The Parties must co-operate with each other and use their best endeavours to resolve by mutual agreement any disputes between them and all other difficulties which may arise from time to time relating to this Agreement.
Any dispute not resolved under clause 15.2 must be dealt with as follows:
the Party claiming a dispute exists must notify in writing the other Party of that dispute ("Notification");
within 10 days of receipt of that Notification, the dispute must be referred to the Chief Executive Officer of the relevant Party and the Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Research) of the Administering Organisation, or their nominees for resolution; and
if the dispute is not resolved within 28 days of Notification, the dispute shall be referred for mediation to the Australian Commercial Dispute Centre Limited ("ACDC").
If the Dispute has not been resolved within 60 days of referral to ACDC either Party is free to initiate court proceedings.
A Party to this Agreement shall not be responsible or liable for any non-performance or delay in performance of any of its obligations under this Agreement that is caused by an act or event that is beyond the reasonable control of that Party ("Force Majeure Event"), provided that it promptly notifies the other parties (with appropriate details); and takes all reasonable steps to work around or reduce the effects of the Force Majeure Event.
This Agreement does not create a partnership, agency, fiduciary or other relationship, except the relationship of contracting parties.
No Party is liable for the acts or omission of any other Party, save as set out in this Agreement.
A Party must not assign, sub-contract, or transfer any of its rights or obligations under this Agreement to any person without the prior written consent of the other Parties.
Such consent must not be unreasonably withheld.
If a clause or part of a clause can be read in a way that makes it illegal, unenforceable or invalid, but can also be read in a way that makes it legal, enforceable and valid, it must be read in the latter way.
If any clause or part of a clause is illegal, unenforceable or invalid, that clause or part is to be treated as removed from this Agreement, but the rest of this Agreement is not affected and all other provisions will remain in full force and effect.
This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the [Administering Organisation's State], Australia.
Each Party submits to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of the courts of that place.
If under GST Law any supply under this Agreement is taxable, the supplier will be entitled to recover from the recipient an amount equal to the GST payable by the supplier.
If GST is payable, the supplier will provide the recipient with a tax invoice or other document adequate to claim an input tax credit.
Each Party's obligations and liabilities under this Agreement are several and not joint or joint and several.
Any failure by a Party to compel performance by the other Party of any of the terms and conditions of this Agreement will not constitute a waiver of those terms or conditions or diminish the rights arising from their breach.
This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts.
All counterparts taken together will be taken to constitute one agreement.
The signatories to this Agreement warrant that they have the authority to enter into this agreement on behalf of the party they are stated to represent.
This Agreement may only be varied in writing, signed by all Parties.
A Party shall not represent that another Party  or any of their staff in any way endorse, support or approve of, any products, services, Intellectual Property or business of  the representing party unless that other Party has given its express written consent to such representation.
Any notice given under this Agreement:
must be in writing and signed by a person authorised by the sender;
must be delivered to the intended recipient by post or by hand or fax or email to the address or fax number or email address set out in Schedule A;
will be taken to be duly given or made:
in the case of delivery in person, when delivered;
in the case of delivery by post, five Business Days after the date of posting unless it has been received earlier; 
in the case of fax, on receipt by the sender of a transmission control report from the dispatching machine; and
if transmitted electronically, upon actual receipt by the addressee provided that the sender does not receive notification of invalid email delivery address or other transmission error.
In the case where the sender receives a transmission error report, the sender must re-send the notice by one of the other means by hand, post or fax;
but if the result is that a notice would be taken to be given or made on a day which is not a Business Day, or is later than 4.00pm (local time), it will be taken to have been duly given or made on the next Business Day.

The University is a Registered Training Organisation ("RTO") and will comply with the Australian Quality Training Framework ("AQTF").
The Secondary College has requested, and the University has agreed to provide, the Secondary College with training and assessment services subject to the following terms and conditions.
The University as the RTO:
Will deliver and assess units/modules from the Program and to the students specified in Appendix A.
Authorises the Secondary College to deliver and assess units/modules from the Program and to the students specified in Appendix B.
Each party to this agreement will discharge its responsibilities for compliance with the AQTF Standards for Registered Training Organisations as detailed in Appendix 2.
Where the Secondary College is delivering and assessing all or part of the Program, it agrees to:
permit University teaching staff to make at least three visits per year to the Secondary College to support and review AQTF compliance
permit AQTF auditors from the University or staff from the Office of Training and Tertiary Education (OTTE) to visit, as required, to audit AQTF evidence
only use the teachers as detailed on the VETIS Training Plan in the delivery of the program(s).
The Secondary College must obtain approval from the University of any change to the teachers delivering the program(s).
Marketing materials developed by the Secondary College must by accurate and approved by a designated University staff member

The University will:
complete all agreed training
conduct  scored assessments in all applicable programs unless notified in writing from home school
process all assessment results;
issue statements of results;
award all applicable qualifications.
The Secondary College will:
complete training as agreed;
provide assessment results to University at agreed times;
return all intellectual property/contractual materials to the University at the conclusion of this Agreement;
provide evidence of AQTF compliance to the University staff and OTTE Auditors.
Both parties agree to:
teach the Program according to the current Victorian Curriculum and Assessment Authority ("VCAA") Program Booklet and the related training package units of competence or curriculum modules.
conform to the VCAA requirements for graded assessment, where required.
Liaison and Coordination:
The University will appoint a VETiS Liaison Officer to liaise with the Secondary College on issues relevant to this Agreement
Teaching Schools within the University will appoint a staff member to liaise with the Secondary College on issues relevant to the delivery of the Program
Communication between the University and the Secondary College will usually be from the University VETIS liaison officer to the Secondary College's VETIS coordinator.
Day to day communication may occur between relevant teachers from the University and the Secondary College

All students will complete a University enrolment form, and as such will be deemed to be a student of the University for the Program
The Secondary College will provide the University with completed enrolment forms
Students will be able to withdraw from the Program up until the 28th Feb.2009
Students must lodge their withdrawal, in writing with the Cluster Coordinator
Students who withdraw from a partially completed Program will be issued with a statement of attainment for units/modules completed
All results will be exchanged by an agreed date using assessor signed results sheets
The University will issue a statement of results for every student at the end of the year and the University will issue a certificate on successful completion of the full course
The University is the assessing agency and it will provide scored assessments, when directed by the Secondary College.
Students are expected to comply with the Secondary College's and the University's regulations governing behaviour.
Any alleged breaches of these codes by students subject to this Agreement will be referred to the Secondary College principal for action at his/her discretion.
The University reserves the right to exclude any student from class for breaches of discipline.
This Agreement is for a period of   1 Year    commencing  1st January 2009 and expiring 

Amendments or alterations to this Agreement may be identified at periodic reviews conducted by the Parties to this Agreement.
This Agreement may only be altered or amended by mutual written Agreement of the Parties.
This Agreement may be terminated in the following circumstances:
by a Party serving notice to another Party should that Party fail to observe or perform any of the condition of the Agreement and fail to remedy such breach within thirty days of the service of such notice or to the satisfaction of the Party serving notice within thirty days to take steps to begin to remedy such breach; or
If both parties agree, then on a date to be mutually agreed between the Parties.
Upon the termination of the Agreement, the Secondary College shall cease to use documents or materials provided to it by the University.
At the option of the University, such materials held at termination shall either be returned or destroyed as directed

The University will invoice the Secondary College as described in Appendix A.
The Secondary College will make payment to the University within 30 days of receipt of each of the University's invoices.
All amounts payable by the Secondary College under this Agreement exclude GST.
If any supply made by the University under this Agreement is or becomes subject to GST, the Secondary College must pay or reimburse the University in accordance with clause 8.2 the GST payable in respect of any of that supply made by the University under or in connection with this Agreement

If any dispute in relation to this Agreement arises between the parties either Party may give notice ('the notice') to the other Party and refer the dispute to a panel for resolution.
The panel shall consist of a representative of each of the parties, specified by the Vice Chancellor of the University of Ballarat and the Principal of the Secondary College.
If the panel does not resolve the dispute within ten days of service of the notice either Party may refer the dispute for determination by an expert as nominated by the President of the Law Institute of Victoria.
The nominated person shall be deemed to act as an expert and not as an arbitrator.
Any determination by the expert shall be binding on the parties and the costs of the expert shall be borne equally between the parties.
Whilst acknowledging that the ultimate responsibility for duty of care for the students is that of the Secondary College, the University will at all times act and instruct its staff to act, in such a way as to promote the safety of the students whilst they are within the influence of the University as a consequence of this Agreement.
The Secondary College agrees with respect to all activities related to or in connection with this Agreement:
to comply with the Information Privacy Principles as set out in the Information Privacy Act 2000 (Vic) which concern personal information to the extent that the content of those principles apply to the activities the Secondary College is undertaking under this Agreement; 
to indemnify the University in respect of any loss, liability or expense suffered or incurred by the University arising out of or in connection with a breach of the obligations under this clause or any misuse of personal information by the Secondary College in breach of an obligation of confidence whether under the Information Privacy Act 2000 (Vic) or otherwise.
The intellectual property in all training, curriculum and learning materials used in relation to this Agreement is owned by the University or, if applicable, the Office Employment, Training and Tertiary Education on behalf of the Crown.
The Secondary College shall take all reasonable steps to ensure that the materials provided by the University under this Agreement are not duplicated or disclosed to any person in contravention of the provisions of this Agreement.
This provision shall survive expiration or termination of this Agreement.
Each Party ('the indemnitor') irrevocably and unconditionally indemnifies and agrees to keep indemnified the other Party and their respective officers, students and consultants ('the indemnitee') from and against any and all liability loss harm injury damage cost or expense, including legal fees and consequential financial loss, which the indemnitee or its respective officers, students or consultants may suffer or sustain as a result of any wilful, unlawful or negligent act or omission of the indemnitor or any of its officers students or consultants in connection with this Agreement except to the extent that the liability loss harm injury damage cost or expense arises from the indemnitee's or its respective officers', students' or consultants' negligent or unlawful acts or omissions or wilful misconduct or breach of this Agreement.
The indemnities given under this clause shall survive termination of this Agreement.
The University and the Secondary College shall maintain an appropriate public liability and professional indemnity policy of insurance in respect of any claim from or related to the provision of the services under this Agreement.
This Agreement does not create, nor is it intended to create, an employment relationship or a relationship of principal and agent, nor shall it constitute a partnership.
The waiver by a Party in respect of any breach of a condition or clause of this Agreement by the other Party shall not be deemed to be a waiver in respect of any other condition, clause or provision or any subsequent breach of that condition, clause or provision.
The failure by a Party to enforce at any time any of the provisions of this Agreement shall in no way be interpreted as a waiver of such provision by that Party.
Any provision of this Agreement which is void or voidable by a Party or is or becomes at any time unlawful or unenforceable, shall, to the extent that it is void or voidable or is unlawful or unenforceable, be deemed to be excised from and not form part of this Agreement without affecting the validity or enforceability of the remaining provisions.

The Researchers in Business initiative will contribute to the funding of the placement of individuals from research organisations in small and medium sized enterprises.
Standard Terms
Your obligations
The Placement contract
You must:
enter into a contract for the performance of the Placement with the Placement Provider or the Placement Recipient (as applicable):
within 10 Business Days after the Commencement Date;  
that includes, and is otherwise consistent with, the terms and conditions specified in clause 11; and
is otherwise on terms acceptable to the Commonwealth1;
comply with the terms of the Placement Contract;
before agreeing to make any variations to the Placement Contract, obtain the Commonwealth's prior written consent; and
provide the Commonwealth with all reasonable assistance to enforce those provisions of the Placement Contract which are for the benefit of the Commonwealth.
Researchers in Business Client Guidelines
Subject to clause 13.3, You must comply with the Researchers in Business Client Guidelines.
You acknowledge that You have been provided with, and have read, a copy of the Researchers in Business Client Guidelines.
Conflict of Interest
You:
warrant that no Conflict exists, or is likely to arise, in the performance of Your obligations under this Agreement (and, if You are the Placement Provider, the Researcher's performance of the Placement under, this Agreement); and
must ensure that no Conflict arises during the Term.
If a Conflict arises, You must notify the Commonwealth immediately and take such steps as the Commonwealth may reasonably require to resolve or otherwise deal with the Conflict.
Subject to paragraph (d) of this clause, the Commonwealth will pay: 
70% of the Funding within 30 days of receiving a tax invoice, satisfying paragraph (b) of this clause, after the execution of this Agreement by You and the Commonwealth; and
30% of the Funding within 30 days of receiving the following after the end of the Term:
if You are the Placement Provider, a final report in a form, and containing the content, approved by the Commonwealth that satisfies the requirements of the Researchers in Business Client Guidelines and includes evidence to the satisfaction of the Commonwealth that the Placement Recipient has received the services of the Researcher through the Placement, and a tax invoice satisfying paragraph (b) of this clause; or 
if You are the Placement Recipient, a final report in a form, and containing the content, approved by the Commonwealth that satisfies the requirements of the Researchers in Business Client Guidelines and includes evidence to the satisfaction of the Commonwealth that You have paid an amount equal to 50% of the salary paid to the Researcher by the Placement Provider for the period of the Placement on or before the end of the Term, and a tax invoice satisfying paragraph (b) of this clause.
You must provide a tax invoice to the Commonwealth's Representative as soon as practicable after:
the execution of this Agreement by You and the Commonwealth; and 
the end of the Term,
which sets out the amount of Funding to which the invoice relates (as specified in paragraph (a) of this clause) and any other information that the Commonwealth requires.
You must use the Funding to pay for the provision of the Researcher for the performance of the Placement.
The Commonwealth may vary, withhold or cease (in whole or in part) the Funding if:
the Placement ceases at any time during the Term including by reason of the Researcher, Placement Provider, or Placement Recipient failing to perform the Placement;
You are in breach of a term of this Agreement;
there is a variation in the funding of the Enterprise Connect Program or in any relevant Federal Government appropriation;
payment of the Funding will cause Funding paid or payable to exceed the maximum amount specified in the Details;
the Commonwealth is not satisfied with a report provided according to clause 9; or
otherwise, by not less than three months notice in writing to You.
If You:
do not fully commit or expend the Funding paid to You by the end of the Term; or
spend any amount of the Funding otherwise than in accordance with this Agreement,
the amount underspent or spent otherwise than in accordance with this Agreement (as the case may be), together with any interest earned on that Funding by You, must, at the option of the Commonwealth, be paid to the Commonwealth as and when required by the Commonwealth or set-off against amounts payable to You under this Agreement.
Nothing in this clause 2 limits the Commonwealth's rights under clause 8.
The consideration specified in this Agreement does not include any amount for GST.
If a supply under this Agreement is subject to GST, the recipient must pay to the supplier (at the same time as the consideration for the supply is payable or is to be provided) an additional amount equal to the amount of the consideration multiplied by the applicable GST rate, provided that the supplier gives the recipient a tax invoice .
If a party is entitled to be reimbursed or indemnified under this agreement, the amount to be reimbursed or indemnified does not include any amount for GST for which the party is entitled to an input tax credit.
Commonwealth Material, and the intellectual property rights in Commonwealth Material, remain the property of the Commonwealth.
Immediately on the expiry or termination of this Agreement You must return all Commonwealth Material to the Commonwealth, or deal with it as otherwise directed by the Commonwealth.
Agreement Material and the intellectual property rights in Agreement Material, vests in the Commonwealth on its creation, however You are granted a world-wide, non-exclusive licence to use that material in the performance of this Agreement.
You must assign to the Commonwealth, or do all things necessary to procure the valid assignment to the Commonwealth of, any Intellectual Property rights in Agreement Material, which from time to time vest in You or any of Your employees or contractors.
Clause 4(b) does not apply to Intellectual Property rights in material that existed prior to the Commencement Date ("Existing Material").
You indemnify the Commonwealth, its officers and employees from and against any loss or liability, cost or expense arising out of or as a consequence of a claim by a third party that the Commonwealth's use of the Agreement Material or Existing Material infringes their intellectual property rights.
You indemnify the Commonwealth against any compensation, remuneration or other amount payable to a third party for the use or exploitation of the Agreement Material and Existing Material (or any of it), or exercise of any intellectual property right of a third party embodied in the Agreement Material and Existing Material, by the Commonwealth (or any person authorised by the Commonwealth) in circumstances where that use, exploitation or exercise is permitted under legislation without infringing the third party's intellectual property right, and against all loss, liability, cost and expense arising out of or in connection with a claim for payment of any such compensation, remuneration or other amount.
In this clause 4, "use" in relation to the Agreement Material or Existing Material, includes to copy, reproduce, modify, make extracts from, display publicly, publicise, or adapt that material or any adaptation of that material.
Each party will comply with the requirements and obligations regarding publicity and promotion set out in the Enterprise Connect Program Guidelines.
Without limiting clause 5(a), You must ensure that the Commonwealth's funding is acknowledged.
The Commonwealth is not liable to you for any loss, liability, cost, damage or expense ("Liability") incurred by You in connection with the Placement or the RIB Project, except to the extent that the Liability arises directly as a consequence of the Commonwealth's negligence or breach of this Agreement.
You indemnify the Commonwealth for any Liability incurred by the Commonwealth in connection with:
Your fraud, negligence or wilful misconduct;
any breach by You of this Agreement or the Placement Contract; and
any claim for payment of remuneration or any other amount to the Researcher in connection with the Placement, except to the extent that the claim arises directly as a consequence of the Commonwealth's breach of clause 2 of this Agreement.
You must maintain the insurance policies specified in the Details.
You must provide evidence of insurance promptly on request by the Commonwealth.
The Commonwealth may, at any time and in its absolute discretion, terminate this Agreement by giving You 30 days' written notice.
If this Agreement is terminated under clause 8.1(a), the Commonwealth is liable only for:
any instalments of the Funding under clause 2(a) which have become due and payable in accordance with this Agreement before the effective date of termination; and
reasonable costs actually incurred by You and directly attributable to the termination (excluding redundancies and costs arising from termination of subcontractors).
The Commonwealth is not liable to pay:
compensation for loss of prospective profits; or
compensation which would, in addition to any amounts paid or due, or becoming due, to You under this Agreement, exceed the total amount of funding payable under this Agreement.
You may terminate this Agreement, at any time, by giving the Commonwealth 30 days' written notice, in which case the Commonwealth is liable only for payments under clause 2(a) which have become due and payable in accordance with this Agreement before the effective date of termination.
The Commonwealth may terminate this Agreement effective immediately by giving notice to You if:
You breach any provision of this Agreement and You fail to remedy the breach within 14 days after receiving notice requiring You to do so; or
the Placement ceases at any time during the Term (including by reason of the Researcher, Placement Provider, or Placement Recipient failing to perform the Placement); or
an event specified in clause 8.2(b) occurs.
You must notify the Commonwealth immediately if:
You cease to be able to pay Your debts as they become due; or
You are guilty of conduct which, in the reasonable opinion of the Commonwealth, would or might bring the Commonwealth or any officer of the Commonwealth into disrepute; or
there is a breach of the Placement Contract by either party to it, or the Researcher acts in a manner that is inconsistent with the terms of the Placement Contract or this Agreement.
On termination of this Agreement, You must:
stop participation in the Placement as specified in the notice of termination;
take all available steps to minimise loss resulting from that termination;
protect Commonwealth Material and Agreement Material, and deal with Commonwealth Material and Agreement Material as reasonably directed by the Commonwealth; and
return all the Commonwealth's Confidential Information (or any third party information obtained as a consequence of Your participation in the Placement) to the Commonwealth.
Termination does not affect accrued rights
Termination of this Agreement does not affect any accrued rights or remedies of a party.
You must provide the following reports to the Commonwealth (in a form and containing the content reasonably required by the Commonwealth from time to time):
a report within 14 days of the Commencement Date with evidence, to the satisfaction of the Commonwealth, of the commencement of the Placement;
a progress report, within 14 days of the day that occurs half-way during the Term in the form, and containing the content, required by the Commonwealth and in accordance with the Researchers in Business Client Guidelines;
a final report, within 30 days of the end of the Term:
in the form, and containing the content, required by the Commonwealth;
that includes financial statements confirming that the Funding has been used in accordance with this Agreement and that have been audited by an Approved Auditor in accordance with the Enterprise Connect Program Guidelines; and
that satisfy the Researchers in Business Client Guidelines; and
any other report required under the Researchers in Business Client Guidelines, in accordance with those guidelines.
The reports referred to in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this clause must detail Your use of the Funding and describe the performance of the Placement and the RIB Project during the period from the Commencement Date to the date of preparation of the report.
You must keep records of Your use of the Funding and Your participation in the Placement.
You must give the Auditor-General and persons authorised by the Commonwealth (collectively, "those permitted") access to premises at which records are stored or work in connection with the Placement is undertaken at all reasonable times and allow those permitted to inspect and copy records in Your possession or control for purposes associated with this Agreement or any review of performance under this Agreement.
You must provide all reasonable assistance to those permitted.
The Placement Contract must include the following terms and conditions:
the Placement may be for a period of up to 12 months; 
Funding will be provided by the Commonwealth for 50% of the salary payable to the Researcher for the performance of the Placement, up to a maximum of $50,000 (excluding GST), and the Placement Recipient must contribute an amount to the payment of the Researcher's salary that is equal to the Funding provided by the Commonwealth;
the details and outcome of the Placement will be made available by the Researcher, the Placement Provider and the Placement Recipient, for use by the Commonwealth as an Enterprise Connect Program case study and other purposes relating to the Commonwealth's evaluation of the Researchers in Business program;
the Placement must not involve the replacement of a former or existing researcher or other employee, officer or agent of the Placement Recipient previously or currently employed or otherwise engaged by the Approved Recipient for similar purposes to those for which the Placement Recipient intends to obtain the Placement; and
an acknowledgment that the Commonwealth may in its discretion terminate the Funding Agreement if the Placement Provider or the Placement Recipient breaches the Placement Contract or the Researcher acts in a manner that is inconsistent with the terms of the Placement Contract.
The Placement Contract must also:
require the Placement Recipient to provide reasonable access and assistance to the Researcher to permit the Researcher to perform the RIB Project through the Placement in accordance with this Agreement and the Placement Contract;
require the Placement Provider to ensure that the Researcher performs the RIB Project through the Placement:
in accordance with this Agreement and the Placement Contract; 
diligently and with reasonable care and skill; and
co-operatively with the Placement Recipient;
specify who is to own the intellectual property created in the performance of the Placement, whether that intellectual property is created by the Researcher or the Placement Recipient, and the intellectual property rights (if any) of the participants in the Placement that do not own that intellectual property; and
include provisions permitting:
it to be terminated in circumstances where this Agreement is terminated; and
the Commonwealth and the Auditor-General to audit the performance of the Placement Contract and the RIB Project on terms that are substantially the same as clause 10 of this Agreement.
Clauses 2(d), 2(e), 4, 6, 8, 9 and 10, and provisions of the Enterprise Connect Program Guidelines and the Researchers in Business Client Guidelines, to the extent that they relate to confidentiality, protection of personal information, books and records, reports and audit and access, survive the expiry or termination of this Agreement.
Except where this Agreement expressly states otherwise, a party may, in its discretion, give conditionally or unconditionally or withhold any approval or consent under this Agreement.
A party may only assign its rights or novate its rights and obligations under this Agreement with the prior written consent of the other party.
This Agreement does not create a relationship of employment, agency or partnership between the parties, and You must not represent Yourself as being an officer, employee, partner or agent of the Commonwealth, or as otherwise able to bind or represent the Commonwealth.
The Commonwealth need not incur expense or make payment before exercising a right of indemnity under this Agreement.

The Stud agrees to agist the Stallion ________________________________________
at Cushavon Park Stud of 35 - 153 Tamborine Mountain Road, Tamborine in the State of Queensland for the period set out on page 1 of the Agreement.
The Stallion Owner agrees to agist the Stallion in the accommodation described by Cushavon Park and as inspected by him/her and declares that he/she is satisfied with that accommodation.
The Stallion Owner will/will not provide feed for the Stallion during the period of the agistment.
If feed is not to be provided, the Stallion Owner will advise Cushavon Park of any special feeding requirements and the Stallion Owner agrees to pay for any special feeding requirements in addition to the relevant agistment fee.
Agistment fees will be agreed between the parties prior to the Stallion arriving at Cushavon Park.
All veterinary related expenses will be charged directly to the Stallion owner.
The Stud will use its best endeavours to notify the Stallion owner prior to any veterinary attendance upon the stallion however, the Stallion Owner agrees that the Stud has absolute discretion in this regard and will take no exception to any veterinary care the Stud has deemed necessary.
If veterinary fees remain unpaid for 30 days or more after issue of an invoice, then the Stud may terminate this agreement by giving the Stallion Owner 2 days notice in writing.
All farrier related expenses will be charged directly to the Stallion owner.
If farrier fees remain unpaid for 30 days or more after issue of an invoice, then the Stud may terminate this agreement by giving the Stallion Owner 2 days notice in writing.
The Stallion Owner will arrange for the Stallion to be transported to and from the Stud.
All transport expenses will be the responsibility of the Stallion owner.
The Stallion Owner agrees to notify the Stud 24 hours prior to the Stallion departing from the stud.
The Stud will not be responsible for any loss, damage or claim relating to the agistment and/or stud handling duties of the Stallion.
The Stallion Owner will indemnify and keep indemnified the Stud from any loss, damage or claim which may arise as a result of the agistment and stud handling duties of the Stallion either during or after the period of this agreement.
Except as provided in clauses 2.3, 3.2 and 4.2 herein, this agreement may be terminated by either party giving the other 7 days written notice.
Upon termination of this agreement, the Stallion owner will -

immediately pay all fees owing to the Stud;
arrange for the removal of the Stallion from the Stud.
Bookings for mares are to be taken by the Stallion Owner who will provide the Stud with at least 24 hours notice of such booking.
The stud will deal directly with mare owners regarding service by the stallion.
The Stallion Owner will arrange for all service fees to be paid directly to him/her and the Stud will not be responsible for collection of service fees unless there is prior agreement to do so.
Full details of the Stallion Owner and the Stallion are set out in the attached Schedule.


The Licensor shall deliver the Licensed Software and Source Code to the Licensee, and install the Licensed Software as it becomes available for release.
The Licensee shall give the Licensor such reasonable assistance, including the provision of personnel and facilities, as the Licensor reasonably considers necessary to ensure satisfactory installation of the Licensed Software.
The Licensee shall ensure the Licensor is granted all reasonable access, including necessary security clearances, for the purposes of complying with subclause 1.
If, in the opinion of the Licensor, the costs associated with the installation of the Licensed Software are greater than the Licensor could have reasonably contemplated on execution of this Agreement and are greater than the costs which would normally be associated with a similar installation project, the Licensor may make an Additional Charge.
The Licensor shall grant to the Licensee a non-exclusive, non-transferable licence for the Initial Term to use so much of the Licensed Software at the Site as is released by the Licensor during the term of this Agreement but such use shall be solely for the purpose of conducting the Licensee's business.
At the sole discretion of the Licensor, the Licence may be renewed for subsequent terms of similar duration to the Initial Term.
The Licensee shall provide at least thirty (30) days notice in writing prior to the expiry of the Initial Term or any subsequent term if it wishes to renew the Licence pursuant to this subclause.
A licence renewal fee shall be payable in accordance with Schedule 2 in the event the licence is extended pursuant to this clause.
The Documentation is licensed to the Licensee for the duration of the Agreement.
The Licensor shall provide the Licensee with such number of copies of the Documentation as are specified in Schedule 1.
The Licensee acknowledges that the Documentation contains sufficient information for the adequate use of the Licensed Software, except to the extent the Licensor has notified the Licensee of any omission or deficiency or of any variation which it considers necessary for the proper use of the Licensed Software.
The Licensee shall not copy or reproduce the Documentation except to the extent otherwise authorised by this Agreement.
The Licensee may only use the Licensed Software in accordance with the normal operating procedures as notified by the Licensor.
The Licensed Software may only be used pursuant to this Agreement:
by the Licensee; and
at the Site.
Unless specified to the contrary in Schedule 1, the Licensed Software may not be used on equipment other than Designated Equipment save that of the sole risk of the Licensee it may be used on alternative equipment if.
the Designated Equipment is temporarily inoperable, due to malfunction, maintenance or change of installation site; or
the Licensor has otherwise given its consent in writing to such alternate use.
The Licensee shall not copy, alter, modify or reproduce the Licensed Software except to the extent otherwise authorised by this Agreement.
In addition to any other remedies available to the Licensor under this Agreement or otherwise, any unauthorised use, alteration, modification, reproduction, publication, disclosure or transfer of the Licensed Software will entitle the Licensor to any available equitable remedy against the Licensee.
Except to the extent specified to the contrary in this Agreement, the Licensor shall not be obliged to support the Licensed Software, whether by providing advice, training, error-correction, modifications, updates, new releases or enhancements or otherwise.
The Licensee acknowledges that there is no transfer of title or ownership to the Licensee of the Licensed Software or the Documentation or any modifications, updates or new releases of the Licensed Software.
Subject to subclause 2, the Licensee shall not copy or reproduce the Licensed Software or Documentation by any means or in any form without the Licensor's prior written consent.
The Licensee may make one copy of the Licensed Software for the purpose of backup and security.
The Licensee shall acknowledge such copy as the property of the Licensor.
The terms of this Agreement, with the necessary modifications, apply to the said copy.
The Licensee shall ensure any copy of the Licensed Software made pursuant to this Agreement bears notice of the Licensor's ownership of copyright and a notice stipulating that the Licensed Software contains information confidential to the Licensor.
The Licensee shall comply with any directions of the Licensor as to the form or content of such notices.
If requested by the Licensor, the Licensee shall issue a notice in a form approved by the Licensor to all employees and other authorised users of the Licensed Software under its direction or control, advising such persons of the Licensee's obligations under this clause and also advising of the possible civil and criminal consequences of a breach of this clause.
The Licensee may modify or alter the Licensed Software or merge all or any part of the Licensed Software with any other software without the Licensor's written permission.
The Licensee hereby assigns to the Licensor all future copyright in the modifications or alterations made by the Licensee to the Licensed Software throughout all countries of the world in which the rights hereby assigned subsist to the intent that the said rights therein shall forthwith upon the creation of such modifications or alterations vest in the Licensor;

If the Licensed Software is modified or altered by the Licensee:
the costs associated with the modifications or alterations or the costs arising out of the investigation of the effects of proposed modifications or alterations will be borne solely by the Licensee;
the Licensee shall provide to the Licensor the source code for the modified or altered Licensed Software;
the Licensee shall not request the performance of any modification or alteration of the Licensed Software and shall not permit the creation of any material in which copyright may subsist relating to such modifications or alterations by any person other than an employee of the Licensee pursuant to the terms of that person's employment by the Licensee unless the Licensee shall have first secured an agreement from any such person to assign to the Licensor all intellectual property rights (including future copyright) in any work which may be created by that person in relation to the Licensed Software and to keep Source Code secret and confidential; and
the Licensee will fully indemnify the Licensor against all liability which may be incurred by the Licensor if such modifications or alterations infringe any Intellectual Property Rights of a third person or otherwise cause the Licensor to suffer loss, damages or expense.
The Licensed Software as modified or altered remains the property of the Licensor in all respects, whether modified by the Licensee, the Licensor or a third party and whether or not authorised pursuant to this Agreement.
Specifically, the Licensee shall if necessary assign the Licensor all Intellectual Property Rights arising out of any modifications or alterations to the Licensed Software which may not have passed to the Licensor pursuant to subclause 2.
This Agreement shall apply to the Licensed Software as modified or altered.
The Licensee shall execute such documents and perform such other acts as are necessary in order to give effect to subclause 3.
The Licensee shall comply with the terms of any licence for the use of Open Source Software.
The Licensee shall provide to the Licensor details of and the source code for any modifications or enhancements made by the Licensee to the open Source Software or any other software forming part of the System.
All modifications and alterations made by the Licensee must include a file documenting the modification or alteration so made.
The Licensee shall not directly or indirectly allow or cause a third party (other than a current Member) to reverse assemble or reverse compile the whole or any part of the Licensed Software.
The Licensee shall be solely responsible for the use, supervision, management and control of the Licensed Software and Documentation.
The Licensee shall ensure that the Licensed Software is protected at all times from misuse, damage, destruction or any form of unauthorised use.
The Licensee shall keep accurate records of use, copying, modification and disclosure of the Licensed Software.
The Licensee shall permit the Licensor to inspect such records at any time during the Licensee's normal business hours.
If the Licensor requests, the Licensee shall furnish to the Licensor a copy of all or any part of such records.
The Licensor shall determine at its discretion:
what changes are made to the System; and
what modifications or alterations are made to the Licensed Software or the Open Source Software forming part of the System.
The Licensee shall only use the System as determined by the Licensor and only for its business purposes.
The Licensor is under no obligation under this Agreement to provide updates or new releases for the Licensed Software or any other software or to complete and supply the Licensed Software.
The Licensor will provide to the Licensee source code for:
any updates or new releases of the Licensed Software; and
any modifications or alterations to any software forming part of the System.
The Licensee shall comply with a direction from the Licensor to redeliver the Licensed Software to the Suppler in substitution for an update or new release which provides functions equal to or better than the Licensed Software.
Where an update or new release is provided pursuant to subclause 2 or any modification or alterations are made to the Licensed Software or the Open Source Software:
the Licensor will deliver and install the update or new release at no additional charge to the Licensee;
the charge for use of the new release will be no higher in respect of the then current term than the then current Licence Fee;
this Agreement will continue to apply in all respects to the update or new release which shall be deemed to be the Licensed Software for the purpose of this Agreement; and
the Licensee shall return to the Licensor all copies of the original Licensed Software or otherwise deal with all copies of the original Licensed Software in accordance with the Licensor's directions.
Without limiting the Licensee's obligations under this clause, and notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, the Licensor shall be under no liability to the Licensee in the event of loss or damage suffered by the Licensor as a result of its failure to comply with this clause, and the Licensee shall indemnify the Licensor in respect of any loss or damage suffered by the Licensor as a result of the Licensee's failure to comply with this clause.
The Licensee shall ensure that the appropriate officers or employees of the Licensee attend meetings of the User Group.
The Licensee shall report (in writing) to the User Group giving details of:
any development work the Licensor is doing with any of the Licensed Software, the Open Source Software or the System; and
any faults or concerns the Licensee has with the System.
The Licensee shall comply with the Source Code Control System used by the Licensor.
The Licensee shall ensure that appropriate officers and employees of the Licensee are made available to participate in training in the use of the System.
The Licensee shall pay the Licence Fee at the rate and in the manner specified in Schedule 2.
If the Licensee disputes the whole or any portion of the amount claimed in an invoice submitted by the Licensor, the Licensee shall pay the portion of the amount stated in the invoice which is not in dispute and shall notify the Licensor in writing (within seven (7) days of receipt of the invoice) of the reasons for disputing the remainder of the invoice.
If it is resolved that some or all of the amount in dispute ought to have properly been paid at the time of the first invoice, then the Licensee shall pay the amount finally resolved together with interest on that amount in accordance with the terms of payment set out in this Agreement.
The Licensee shall pay the Licensor interest on any amount due and not paid by the Customer within the timeframe required by this Agreement and the rate of interest specified in Schedule 2.
In the event that:
the supply or installation of the Licensed Program is delayed;
the Licensor is required to deliver and install the Licensed Software or perform services in circumstances other than those expressly or reasonably anticipated to be associated with the delivery or installation or supply of services of a similar nature; or
there is a change in the timing or complexity of the delivery or installation of the Licensed Software or the supply of services;
for reasons other than a breach of this Agreement by the Licensor, then the Licensor shall be entitled to payment of an Additional Charge on a time and material basis in respect of additional resources reasonably utilised in order to fulfil its obligations under this Agreement.
The Licence Fees are exclusive of taxes, duties and charges imposed or levied in Australia or overseas in connection with the supply and installation of the Licensed Software.
Without limiting the foregoing, the Licensee shall be liable for any new taxes, duties or charges imposed subsequent to the Commencement Date in respect of the goods and services which are the subject of this Agreement.
For the duration of the Warranty Period, the Licensor warrants that the Licensed Software will operate in conformity with the Documentation in all material respects.
If at any time during the Warranty Period the Licensee believes there is a defect in the Licensed Software such that the Licensed Software does not comply with or cannot be used in accordance with the Specifications, the Licensee shall notify the Licensor of such perceived defect.
The Licensor shall investigate the perceived defect notified pursuant to subclause 2 and shall, upon the verification of the existence of the defect, rectify such defect without additional charge to the Licensee.
If due investigation by the Licensor of a defect reported pursuant to subclause 2 reveals that no such defect in fact exists, the Licensor may make an Additional Charge in respect of such investigation.
The Licensor shall not be liable under this clause to the extent that a defect is caused by the Licensee or a third party, including the failure of the Licensee or a third party to maintain the operating environment designated in the Documentation or to otherwise use the Licensed Software in accordance with specifications issued by the Licensor from time to time, whether in the Documentation or otherwise.
A Party shall not, without the prior written approval of the other Party, disclose the other Party's Confidential Information.
A Party shall not be in breach of subclause 1 in circumstances where it:
is legally compelled to disclose the other Party's Confidential Information; or
discloses Source Code to a Member whose membership is current at the time of such disclosure.
Each Party shall take all reasonable steps to ensure that its employees and agents, and any sub-contractors engaged for the purposes of this Agreement, do not make public or disclose the other Party's Confidential Information.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this clause, the Licensor may disclose the terms of this Agreement (other than Confidential Information of a technical nature) to its related companies, solicitors, auditors, insurers and accountants.
This clause shall survive the termination of this Agreement.
During the Restraint Period, neither Party shall solicit for employment, either directly or indirectly, any person who is employed or contracted by the other Party.
A Party shall promptly advise the other Party if a person who is employed or contracted by the other Party seeks to be employed or contracted by the firstmentioned Party prior to the expiration of the Restraint Period.
Subject to subclauses 2, 3 and 4, the Licensor shall indemnify the Licensee against liability under any final judgment in proceedings brought by a third party against the Licensee which determine that the Licensee's use of the Licensed Software constitutes an infringement in Australia of any Intellectual Property Rights in the Licensed Software.
The Licensor shall not be required to indemnify the Licensee as provided in subclause 1 unless the Licensee:
notifies the Licensor in writing as soon as practicable of any infringement, suspected infringement or alleged infringement;
gives the Licensor the option to conduct the defence of such a claim, including negotiations for settlement or compromise prior to the institution of legal proceedings;
provides the Licensor with reasonable assistance in conducting the defence of such a claim;
permits the Licensor to modify, alter or substitute the infringing part of the Licensed Software at its own expense in order to avoid continuing infringement, or authorises the Licensor to procure for the Licensee the authority to continue the use and possession of the infringing Licensed Software.
The Licensor shall not indemnify the Licensee to the extent that an infringement, suspected infringement or alleged infringement arises from:
use of the Licensed Software in combination by any means and in any form with other goods not specifically approved by the Licensor;
use of the Licensed Software in a manner or for a purpose not reasonably contemplated or not authorised by the Licensor;
modification or alteration of the Licensed Software without the prior written consent of the Licensor;
any transaction entered into by the Licensee relating to the Licensed Software without the Licensee's prior consent in writing; or
use of modifications or alterations made to the Licensed Software by the Licensee.
In the event that proceedings are brought or threatened by a third party against the Licensee alleging that the Licensee's use of the Licensed Software constitutes an infringement of Intellectual Property Rights, the Licensor may at its option and at its own expense conduct the defence of such proceedings.
The Licensee shall provide all necessary co-operation, information and assistance to the Licensor in the conduct of the defence of such proceedings.
The Licensee shall indemnify the Licensor against any loss, costs, expenses, demands or liability, whether direct or indirect, arising out of a claim by a third party alleging such infringement if:
the claim arises from an event specified in subclause 3; or
the ability of the Licensor to defend the claim has been prejudiced by the failure of the Licensee to comply with any requirements of subclauses 2 or 4.
Subject to subclause 2, any condition or warranty which would otherwise be implied in this Agreement is hereby excluded.
Where legislation implies in this Agreement any condition or warranty, and that legislation avoids or prohibits provisions in a contract excluding or modifying the application of or exercise of or liability under such condition or warranty, the condition or warranty shall be deemed to be included in this Agreement.
However, the liability of the Licensor for any breach of such condition or warranty shall be limited, at the option of the Licensor, to one or more of the following:
if the breach relates to goods:
the replacement of the goods or the supply of equivalent goods;
the repair of such goods;
the payment of the cost of replacing the goods or of acquiring equivalent goods; or
the payment of the cost of having the goods repaired; and
if the breach relates to services:
the supplying of the services again; or
the payment of the cost of having the services supplied again.
Except in relation to liability for personal injury (including sickness and death), the Licensor shall be under no liability to the Licensee in respect of any loss or damage (including consequential loss or damage) which may be suffered or incurred or which may arise directly or indirectly in respect of goods or services supplied pursuant to this Agreement or in respect of a failure or omission on the part of the Licensor to comply with its obligations under this Agreement.
Subject to subclause 3, the Licensee warrants that it has not relied on any representation made by the Licensor which has not been stated expressly in this Agreement, or upon any descriptions, illustrations or specifications contained in any document including catalogues or publicity material produced by the Licensor.
The Licensee acknowledges that to the extent the Licensor has made any representation which is not otherwise expressly stated in this Agreement, the Licensee has been provided with an opportunity to independently verify the accuracy of that representation.
The Licensee shall at all times indemnify and hold harmless the Licensor and its officers, employees and agents ("those indemnified") from and against any loss (including reasonable legal costs and expenses) or liability reasonably incurred or suffered by any of those indemnified arising from any proceedings against those indemnified where such loss or liability was caused by:
a breach by the Licensee of its obligations under this Agreement; or
any wilful, unlawful or negligent act or omission of the Licensee.
Without limiting the generality of any other clause in this Agreement, the Licensor may terminate this Agreement immediately by notice in writing if:
the Licensee is in breach of any term of this Agreement and such breach is not remedied within thirty (30) days of notification by the Licensor;
the Licensee for any reason destroys or disposes of or loses custody of the Licensed Software;
the Licensee becomes, threatens or resolves to become or is in jeopardy of becoming subject to any form of insolvency administration;
the Licensee, being a partnership, dissolves, threatens or resolves to dissolve or is in jeopardy of dissolving;
the Licensee, being a natural person, dies;
the Licensee ceases or threatens to cease conducting its business in the normal manner; or
the Licensee ceases to be a Member.
If notice is given to the Licensee pursuant to subclause 1, the Licensor may, in addition to terminating the Agreement:
repossess any copies of the Licensed Software and Documentation in the possession, custody or control of the Licensee;
retain any moneys paid;
charge a reasonable sum for work performed in respect of which work no sum has been previously charged;
be regarded as discharged from any further obligations under this Agreement; and
pursue any additional or alternative remedies provided by law.
In the event of the termination of this Agreement by the Licensor, the Licensee shall resign as a Member.
Neither Party shall be liable for any delay or failure to perform its obligations pursuant to this Agreement if such delay is due to Force Majeure.
If a delay or failure of a Party to perform its obligations is caused or anticipated due to Force Majeure, the performance of that Party's obligations will be suspended.
If a delay or failure by a Party to perform its obligations due to Force Majeure exceeds sixty (60) days, either Party may immediately terminate the Agreement on providing notice in writing to the other Party.
If this Agreement is terminated pursuant to subclause 3, the Licensor shall refund moneys previously paid by the Licensee pursuant to this Agreement for goods or services not provided by the Licensor to the Licensee.
The Licensor may sub-contract for the performance of this Agreement or any part of this Agreement to the extent so specified in Schedule 1 or upon obtaining (subject to subclause 3) the Licensee's prior written consent.
The Licensee shall not unreasonably withhold consent for the engagement of a sub-contractor in accordance with subclause 1.
The Licensor may, without the consent of the Licensee, engage individuals on a sub-contract or consultancy basis, whether or not operating under a corporate structure, to assist in the provision of services pursuant to this Agreement.
This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement between the Parties and supersedes all prior representations, agreements, statements and understandings, whether verbal or in writing.
The documents comprising this Agreement shall be read in the following order of precedence:
the clauses of this Agreement;
the Schedules.
Where any conflict occurs between the provisions contained in two or more of the documents forming this Agreement, the document lower in the order of precedence shall where possible be read down to resolve such conflict.
If the conflict remains incapable of resolution by reading down, the conflicting provisions shall be severed from the document lower in the order of precedence without otherwise diminishing the enforceability of the remaining provisions of that document.
The benefit of this Agreement shall not be assigned by the Licensee without the Licensor's written consent.
The Licensor may consent to the assignment or novation of this Agreement by the Licensee subject to such conditions as it chooses to impose.
No right under this Agreement shall be deemed to be waived except by notice in writing signed by each Party.
A waiver made by the Licensor pursuant by subclause 1 will not prejudice its rights in respect of any subsequent breach of the Agreement by the Licensee.
Subject to subclause 1, any failure by the Licensor to enforce any clause of this Agreement, or any forbearance, delay or indulgence granted by the Licensor to the Licensee, will not be construed as a waiver of the Licensor's rights under this Agreement.
The provisions of this Agreement, shall not be varied, except by agreement in writing signed by the Parties.
If either Party wishes to vary the Agreement, the proposing Party shall submit a copy of the proposed variations to the other Party ("the receiving Party"), specifying a reasonable period in which the receiving Party is to provide written notice of acceptance or rejections of the proposal.
If the receiving Party accepts the variations, the Agreement shall be deemed to be so amended from the date of acceptance.
If the receiving Party rejects the proposed variations, each Party shall perform the Agreement in accordance with the unvaried terms.
Any dispute arising in connection with this Agreement which cannot be settled by negotiation between the Parties or their representatives shall be submitted to arbitration in accordance with the Rules for the Conduct of Commercial Arbitrations for the time being of the Institute of Arbitrators Australia.
During such arbitration, both Parties may be legally represented.
Prior to referring a matter to arbitration pursuant to subclause 1, the Parties shall:
formally refer the dispute to their respective contract managers for consideration;
if the respective contract managers are unable to resolve the dispute after five (5) days (or such other period as is agreed between the Parties) from the date of referral, refer the dispute to the respective chief executive officers of each Party; and
in good faith explore the prospect of mediation.
Nothing in this clause shall prevent a Party from seeking urgent equitable relief before an appropriate court.
Any express statement of a right of the Licensor under this Agreement is without prejudice to any other right of the Licensor expressly stated in this Agreement or existing at law.
Subject to any provision to the contrary, this Agreement shall enure to the benefit of and be binding upon the Parties and their successors, trustees, permitted assigns or receivers but shall not enure to the benefit of any other persons.
The covenants, conditions and provisions of this Agreement which are capable of having effect after the expiration of the Agreement shall remain in full force and effect following the expiration of the Agreement:

If any provision of this Agreement is held invalid, unenforceable or illegal for any reason, the Agreement shall remain otherwise in full force apart from such provisions which shall be deemed deleted.
This Agreement will be governed by and construed according to the law of the jurisdiction specified in Schedule 1.
Notices under this agreement may be delivered by hand, by mail or by facsimile to the addresses specified in Schedule 1.
Notice will be deemed given:
in the case of hand delivery, upon written acknowledgment of receipt by an officer or other duly authorised employee, agent or representative of the receiving Party;
in the case of posting, three days after despatch;
in the case of facsimile, upon receipt of transmission if received on a business day or otherwise at the commencement of the first business day following transmission.
This Agreement may be executed in counterparts by the respective Parties, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement, provided that this Agreement shall be of no force and effect until the counterparts are exchanged.


By agreement dated [insert date] and varied on [insert date] (the Original Commonwealth Agreement) the persons collectively described as "the Researcher" entered into an agreement with the Commonwealth to establish and operate a research centre presently known as the
"Cooperative Research Centre for [insert name]".
The Commonwealth and the Researcher have agreed to terminate the Original Commonwealth Agreement with effect from [insert date].
The Commonwealth has agreed to enter into another agreement for funding a new Cooperative Research Centre (the New Commonwealth Agreement) to be known as the 
"Cooperative Research Centre for [insert name]" (Extension CRC).
All capitalised terms in this Deed (other than those defined in clause 1.1) have the same meaning as defined in the Original Commonwealth Agreement.
Notwithstanding any other provision in this Deed, this Deed will not have effect until the New Commonwealth Agreement has been executed by all parties to that Agreement.
Subject to clause 2.1, the Original Commonwealth Agreement is terminated as from [insert date].
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Deed, clauses of this Deed do not affect the rights and obligations of the parties arising or accruing under the Original Commonwealth Agreement prior to the date on which this Deed takes effect under clause 2.1.
Notwithstanding that this Deed terminates the Original Commonwealth Agreement, the Researcher is not required to comply with clauses 16.1, 16.2 and 16.3 of the Original Commonwealth Agreement.
On the termination of the Original Commonwealth Agreement the Researcher must do all things reasonably required by the Commonwealth to ensure orderly transition to the Extension CRC.
Within 4 months of the termination of the Original Commonwealth Agreement the Researcher must prepare and provide reports in accordance with clause 13 of the Original Commonwealth Agreement as if the Agreement was terminated under clause 15 of that Agreement.
For the avoidance of doubt, the termination of the Original Commonwealth Agreement will mean that the Commonwealth is not obliged to make any further payments to the Researcher under the Agreement, including Grant instalments which were to be payable after the termination date.
For a period of up to 3 months after the termination of the Original Commonwealth Agreement the Researcher may draw from the Account amounts necessary to meet commitments properly made prior to the termination of the Original Commonwealth Agreement.
Subject to clauses 4.3 and 4.4, within 3 months of the termination of the Original Commonwealth Agreement the Researcher must pay to the company or agent that will sign the New Commonwealth Agreement on behalf of the Extension CRC (the Recipient) the Unexpended Grant Amount.
The Commonwealth may, at its absolute discretion, give written directions to the Researcher regarding its dealings with the Unexpended Grant Amount, including a direction that the Unexpended Grant Amount be paid to the Commonwealth instead of the Recipient.
The Researcher must comply with any such written directions from the Commonwealth.
In the event that the Unexpended Grant Amount exceeds $250,000 the Researcher must inform the Commonwealth in writing of the amount of the Unexpended Grant Amount prior to paying any of that amount to the Recipient and must seek written directions from the Commonwealth in regard to its treatment of the Unexpended Grant Amount.
A commitment referred to in clause 4.1 will not have been properly made if:
it was made in breach of clause 5 of the Original Commonwealth Agreement; or
the resultant expenditure is likely to occur more than 3 months after the termination of the Original Commonwealth Agreement.
Notwithstanding clauses 4.1 to 4.5, upon the written request of the Researcher the Commonwealth may, at its absolute discretion, permit the monies that would otherwise be required to be paid to the Recipient or the Commonwealth in accordance with clause 4.2 to be retained by the Researcher to be used in accordance with a purpose agreed by the Commonwealth and permitted under the terms of the Original Commonwealth Agreement.
If the Commonwealth agrees to a request by the Researcher under clause 4.6 and monies so retained by the Researcher under clause 4.6 are not fully used for the purpose agreed to by the Commonwealth within any timeframe for such use specified by the Commonwealth, or are used for a purpose not permitted by the Commonwealth, the Researcher must pay immediately to the Commonwealth the portion of those monies that are not used in accordance with the agreed purpose, such amount being a debt due to the Commonwealth without further proof of the debt being provided by the Commonwealth.
In addition to any clauses that either expressly or by implication survive the termination of the Original Commonwealth Agreement, the indemnity provided by the Researcher under clause 20 of the Original Commonwealth Agreement will survive the termination of the Original Commonwealth Agreement.
Each party must pay its own costs incurred in relation to this Deed.
This Deed may be signed by the Researcher in several counterparts.
When signed by the Commonwealth, each signed counterpart is taken to be an original of this Deed.

(RECIPIENT) 	and binds the RECIPIENT and any third or other party or entity whether they be physical or corporate to whom the RECIPIENT may intentionally or by accident pass on information which is considered CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION and the property of the DISCLOSER, and the RECIPIENT agrees that they will not pass information to any other party without first obtaining from that party Agreement to adhere to the terms of this Non-Disclosure Agreement.
The (DISCLOSER), desires to disclose to the (RECIPIENT), certain confidential information that RECIPIENT acknowledges to be of a confidential character, such information relating to "the Intellectual Property of the DISCLOSER and any and all materials developed by the DISCLOSER such as and including all copyright and copyright to <<insert intellectual property>> including designs, layouts, databases, charts, documents, templates, advertising and marketing materials, logos, tradenames, websites and URL's, patents pending, marks and registered trademarks, products, brochures and any other information devolved as trade secrets developed by the DISCLOSER ("Confidential Information").
RECIPIENT accepts this Confidential Information for the sole purpose of evaluating the same for its own contemplated use and hereby agrees not to make use of the disclosed Confidential Information, except for such purpose as evaluation, or to disclose the same to any third party or parties without the written prior consent of DISCLOSER and the acceptance by the Third Party, and or its Directors if a corporate entity to be bound by this undertaking.
All such disclosures shall be in writing.
Any disclosure whether oral or in writing to RECIPIENT, after the date of this Agreement, are also covered by this Agreement.
RECIPIENT shall protect said Confidential Information with the same degree of care as it applies to protect its own.
Within any extension period granted by DISCLOSER from the date of this Agreement, RECIPIENT will advise DISCLOSER in writing as to its interest in negotiating an agreement to allow RECIPIENT's use of the disclosed Confidential Information beyond evaluation.
Should DISCLOSER independently agree to so negotiate with RECIPIENT, the parties will commence good faith negotiations upon DISCLOSER written notification to RECIPIENT.
If the period for evaluation has expired, or the RECIPIENT has notified DISCLOSER in writing that it is no longer interested in continuing with the evaluation, or if negotiations between the parties have commenced but DISCLOSER has notified RECIPIENT in writing that in DISCLOSER sole discretion a satisfactory agreement cannot be reached, then RECIPIENT will promptly return to DISCLOSER within thirty (30) days all Confidential Information and copies thereof, including written documentation, drawings, photographs, models, and specimens, less those specimens necessarily consumed in evaluation, and will keep only one copy thereof for the sole purpose of documenting this Confidential Information to RECIPIENT, and which will be maintained in confidence by RECIPIENT for the life of the Agreement as specified in Paragraph 9 below.
It is recognized that RECIPIENT may be required to disclose such Confidential Information to employees, for purposes of evaluation.
RECIPIENT will exercise reasonable care in the selection of such employees, and will fully advise all such persons of the confidentiality of this Confidential Information and shall secure the agreement of all such persons to comply with the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
The number of such employees will be limited to those who need to know for said evaluation purposes and their names shall be made available to the DISCLOSER.
Notwithstanding the above, RECIPIENT shall have no obligation hereunder to refrain from disclosing specific information if and when a patent is issued covering such Confidential Information.
Further, RECIPIENT shall have no obligation hereunder to refrain from disclosing or using the following information:

Information that is generally available to the public at the time of this disclosure;
Information that becomes part of the public domain or publicly known or available by publication or otherwise, not due to any unauthorized act or omission on the part of RECIPIENT;
Information which thereafter is disclosed to the undersigned by third parties as a matter of right; and
Information that has been independently developed by RECIPIENT.
In any event, it is understood that DISCLOSER does not release RECIPIENT from any liabilities based upon any copyright or patent or other rights it now possesses or may acquire concerning such Confidential Information.
No license or other right under any Australian or foreign patent, copyright, or know-how is granted or implied by this Agreement.
The interpretation and validity of this Agreement and the rights of the parties shall be governed by the laws of New South Wales.
The period of this Agreement is one (1) year from either the termination of evaluation or negotiations by RECIPIENT or DISCLOSER whichever occurs last, as specified in Paragraph 3 above.
All obligations of the RECIPIENT with respect to the use and disclosure of Confidential Information hereunder shall terminate at the end of such one (1) year period.
This Agreement is in force from the date of signing or as otherwise agreed in writing and any disclosure to any third party or any employee or person acting for or with the RECIPIENT shall be entitled only to receive or use such information for the period mentioned in this clause unless otherwise extended by the DISCLOSER.
This Agreement and the information that the parties are conducting business together is to be kept private and confidential and not to be disclosed to any third party, nor is it to be disclosed to any person or persons outside the Agreement without written permission of the DISCLOSER.
Breaches of this Agreement by the DISCLOSER could lead to damages for that breach being sought at law against the DISCLOSER individually and against any company, group or organisation that the DISCLOSER represents, is agent for, is employed by or is associated with and to whom the DISCLOSER has disclosed either properly in accordance with the terms of the Agreement or improperly or otherwise outside the terms of this Agreement.


In consideration of the mutual disclosures contemplated by this agreement, both parties 	hereby undertake that:
they will keep all Confidential Information of the other absolutely secret and confidential.
any person employed or engaged by the parties in connection with the discussions and  negotiations relating to the Proposed Project between the parties (the "Proposed Project") in the course of such involvement, shall only use Confidential Information for the purposes of such discussions and negotiations;
any person employed or engaged by either "Company A" or "Company B" (in connection with the Proposed Project in the course of such employment or engagement) shall not disclose any Confidential Information to any third party without the prior written consent of a duly authorised representative of either party; and
both parties shall take all the necessary precautions to ensure that all Confidential Information is treated as confidential and not disclosed (save as aforesaid) or used other than for the purposes of the Proposed Project by their employees, servants, agents or sub-contractors.
The provisions of Clause 2.1 shall not apply to any information which:
is or becomes available in the public domain other than by a breach of Clause 2.2.
Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing for the purposes of this sub-clause:
Confidential Information shall not be deemed to be in the public domain by reason only that it is known to only a few persons to whom it may be of commercial interest;
A combination of two or more portions of Confidential Information shall not be deemed to be in the public domain by reason only of each 	separate portion being so available;
the receiving party can show by its written or other records that such information was in its possession prior to receipt from the disclosing party and which had not previously been obtained from the disclosing party or any other party on behalf of the disclosing party under an obligation of confidence;
is received from a third party who lawfully acquired it and who is under no obligation restricting its disclosure;
has been disclosed by the disclosing party to a third party without any obligation of confidence; or
is independently developed without access to the Confidential Information.
Neither party accepts any responsibility for or makes any representations or warranties, 	express or implied, with respect to the accuracy or completeness of any of the Confidential Information and neither party shall be liable to the other party or any third party for any loss resulting from use of the Confidential Information.
The obligations on both parties pursuant to Clause 2.2 shall continue for the period of the 	Proposed Project from the date of this agreement, subject to the provisions of Clause 2.2 	above, whatever the outcome of discussions and negotiations relating to the Proposed 	Project, and shall continue for a period of three years from the date of this agreement.
All intellectual property rights arising out of the Proposed Project shall on coming into existence vest with The Product Workshop's client (The proposed Projects owner).
This agreement shall not be construed as granting any licences or other similar rights arising out of the disclosure of the Confidential Information.
Each party undertakes within seven (7) days of receipt of a written request of the other party and at the option of the other party:
to return to the other party all documents and other material in its possession, custody or control that bear or incorporate any part of the other party's Confidential Information; or
to destroy by shredding, incineration, deletion from computer systems all documents and other material in its possession, custody or control which bear or incorporate any part of the other party's Confidential Information and to certify to the other party that this has been done.
to maintain its obligations under the Data Protection Act.
This agreement supersedes any previous agreement between the parties in relation to the subject matter and represents the entire agreement between the parties in relation to the subject matter and may not be varied except by a written instrument signed by or for and on behalf of all the parties.
Nothing in this agreement shall be deemed to constitute a partnership or agency between the parties.
Any notice which either party is required to give under this agreement shall be in writing 	and shall be served by recorded delivery post to the address of the relevant party as 	notified from time-to-time by such party.
In the course of the above "Company A" shall not be liable for any damages for any inadvertent disclosure where the customary degree of care as previously defined had been exercised provided that upon discovery of such inadvertent disclosure, it shall have endeavoured to prevent any further inadvertent disclosure.
Australian law shall govern the validity, construction and performance of this Confidentiality 	Agreement.
All disputes between the parties relating to the validity, construction or 	performance of any provision of this Confidentiality Agreement shall be subject to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of the Australian Courts.








MURDOCH WEBSTER TECHNOLOGY GROUP PTY LTD
ABN OF 72 941 863 780
OF
LEVEL 1A, 18-24 RICKETTS ROAD
MOUNT WAVERLEY VIC 3149

MWTG agrees to use its best endeavours to ensure that:
the Consultants are duly qualified and licensed (if applicable) to perform said tasks;
the Consultants will comply with all reasonable instructions of the Client in performing the Service;
the Consultants will comply with the policies of the Client in operation at the Location from time to time including but not limited to policies and guidelines relating to occupational health and safety, sexual harassment, equal opportunity and training and drug and alcohol use and any other relevant directions or regulations of the Client.
MWTG will use its best efforts to ensure that the Professional Service is performed but does not represent or guarantee a certain outcome, nor make any warranties or representations regarding the Service.
The Client undertakes to do the following:

provide a safe place of work for the Consultants to perform the Professional Service;
use its best efforts to ensure that the Consultants are not injured and does not suffer damage during the performance of the Service;
comply with its internal policies, regulations and training requirements with respect to, but not limited to occupational health and safety, sexual harassment and equal opportunity and in relation to the performance of the Service by the Consultants;
advise MWTG if the Consultant suffers an injury or is involved in a sexual harassment or discrimination claim in the performance of the Service at the Location, and
to not incur any liability on behalf of MWTG or sub contract or assign the performance of its obligations under this document without the prior written consent of MWTG, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld
to pay the Fee and Approved Expenses when invoiced and due.
If the Client wishes to have a Consultant replaced by another Consultant, it must advise MWTG of such request and MWTG will use its best efforts to replace the Consultant with a suitable qualified replacement.
If the Client wishes to vary the Service, the Client is to make a written request to MWTG seeking its agreement to the variation of the Professional Service.
MWTG and the Client shall conduct meetings at times mutually agreed upon to assess the progress of the commercial cooperation between the parties as outlined in this Agreement.
The Client and MWTG may agree on a Fixed Price Arrangement, in which case the Fixed Price payable by the Client upon invoice from MWTG is stated in Item 8b of Schedule 1.
Alternatively, the Client is to pay a Fee to MWTG as stated in Item 8a of the Schedule according to the number of days worked by the Consultant for the Client in the performance of the Service.
The Consultant is required to record the number of hours worked in the performance of the Service for the Client on a timesheet.
At the conclusion of each week the Consultant is to provide their time sheet to the Client.
The Client is required to confirm that the number of hours recorded were the hours worked by the Consultant in the performance of the Service.
The Client is to pay MWTG the Fee which is the amount stated in the invoice in accordance with the terms of the relevant invoice.
In the event that MWTG is liable to the Client for the payment of any sums of money, the Client is to provide a statement of the moneys owing to them, and, upon acceptance thereof by MWTG, MWTG may deduct that amount from the amount stated in the invoice provided in accordance with this Agreement.
Terms used in this clause have the meanings given to them in the A New Tax System (Goods and Service Tax) Act 1999 or the Trade Practices Act 1974, as appropriate.
Unless otherwise expressly stated, all prices or other sums payable or consideration to be provided under or in accordance with this document are exclusive of GST.
If GST is imposed on any supply made under or in accordance with this document, the recipient of the taxable supply must pay to the supplier an additional amount equal to the GST payable on or for the taxable supply subject to the recipient receiving a valid tax invoice in respect of the supply at or before the time of payment.
Payment of the additional amount will be made at the same time as payment for the taxable supply is required to be made in accordance with this document.
If GST is imposed on any Supply made pursuant to this Agreement, then the Client shall pay any GST imposed in respect of such Supply (in addition to any Fees or other costs or expenses payable in respect of that Supply).
If the Fees are expressly stated to be inclusive of GST and any applicable law increases or decreases, the rate of GST will be increased or decreased proportionately.
If any amount payable by the Client is calculated by reference to any cost, expense or liability ('Cost') incurred by any person including MWTG, then such Cost, shall be the Cost actually incurred less the amount of any input tax credits which that party is entitled to claim in respect of that Cost.
MWTG shall issue a tax invoice in accordance with the GST law.
During the Service Period, the Consultant will have access to:
trade secrets and Confidential Information, including information about the business of the Client and its client and trade connections; and
Intellectual Property, including copyright materials.
MWTG will use reasonable efforts to ensure that:
the Consultant keeps confidential all Confidential Information;
the Consultant does not disclose any Confidential Information to any person except:
as required by law;
with the prior written consent of the Client; or
to the Client's agents, employees or advisers in the proper performance of the Service by the Consultant.
the Consultant does not use any Confidential Information for the benefit of any person except the Client or any Related Body Corporate;
the Consultant maintains proper and secure custody of all Confidential Information and will use its best endeavours to prevent the use or disclosure of the Confidential Information by third parties.
MWTG acknowledges that the Client is the sole owner of any rights in the Intellectual Property created, conceived developed or made by the Consultant in the performance of the Service.
MWTG and the Client agree that, notwithstanding the terms of this document, the responsibility for the protection of the Client's Confidential Information and Intellectual Property lies solely with the Client;

MWTG is not liable for any loss, liability, claim or expense arising from or related to:
the Client's Confidential Information or Intellectual Property; or
the failure by the Client or MWTG to execute an agreement to protect the Client's Confidential Information and Intellectual Property.
The Client agrees to indemnify MWTG in respect of any losses, expenses, actions, claims or liabilities arising from or related to the following:
a breach by the Client of any of its obligations under this document;
any act or omission of the Client or its employees, agents or servants including any act or omission that may contravene the provisions of any equal opportunity legislation;
the failure or alleged failure of a Consultant duly to perform the Service;
personal injury or death of a Consultant or any other person whatsoever or howsoever arising from or related to the performance by a Consultant of the Service;
damage to any property, including the property of any third person, arising from or related to the performance by a Consultant of the Service; and
any statutory charges, levies and taxes for which MWTG may become liable in respect of performing its obligations under this document by reason of such statutory charges, levies or taxes being introduced after the Commencement Date.
An MWTG Consulting Manager will be the key contact for the delivery and quality of the Professional Service provided and will be listed on Schedule One, along with their contact details.
The Client acknowledges that MWTG has expended considerable resources in locating, recruiting, training and managing the Consultant, who is in effect an employee of MWTG or is in a contractual relationship with MWTG.
Therefore, if a Consultant is offered a permanent position with the Client or one of the Client's related entities, the Client shall pay to MWTG a fee equal to 12 months of the offered salary of the Consultant.
The offer must be communicated to the Consulting Manager named in Schedule One.
This document may be varied or replaced only by a document duly executed by the parties.
This document is governed by and is to be construed in accordance with the law of the relevant jurisdiction prescribed in item 9 of Schedule 1.
Each party irrevocably and unconditionally submits to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of the courts of the relevant jurisdiction and any courts which have jurisdiction to hear appeals from any of those courts and waives any right to object to any proceedings being brought in those courts.
This document may consist of a number of counterparts and if so the counterparts taken together constitute one and the same instrument.
Each party shall promptly execute all documents and do all things that any other party from time to time reasonably requires of it to effect, perfect or complete the provisions of this document and any transaction contemplated by it.
A party shall not dispose of or encumber any right under this document without the prior written consent of the other party.
This document is binding on a party to it even if it is not executed by any other person named as a party.
All previous negotiations, understandings, representations, warranties, memoranda or commitments in relation to, or in any way affecting, the subject matter of this document are merged in and superseded by this document and shall be of no force or effect whatever and no party shall be liable to any other party in respect of those matters.
No oral explanation or information provided by any party to another shall:
affect the meaning or interpretation of this document, or
constitute any collateral agreement, warranty or understanding between any of the parties.
Notwithstanding anything else in this document, the parties agree that any and all liability under this Agreement (whether pursuant to indemnification or otherwise) shall not exceed AUD $2.2million.
MWTG will not be liable to the other party in any circumstances for any indirect, economic, special or consequential loss or damage, including but not limited to loss of revenue, loss of production or loss of profits.
Either party may terminate this Agreement:
if the other party commits a breach of this Agreement and fails to remedy the breach within 20 business days of being given notice of such breach; or
If the other party commits an act of insolvency; or
By giving 30 days notice in writing to the other party

On termination of this agreement:
the parties shall remain liable for the performance of all obligations or breaches of this agreement which have accrued or occurred up to and including the date of termination; and 
the Client shall pay to MWTG all Fees and other charges which have accrued due up to and including the date of termination, (including any charges which may arise as a consequence of such termination).
Termination of this agreement shall not release any party from its obligation to indemnify the other party in accordance with the terms of this agreement, in relation to any matter occurring up to and including the date of termination of this agreement, or from any obligation of confidentiality contained in this agreement, (which obligation shall continue after such termination).


This Deed and terms used in it will be interpreted in accordance with the SSO Constitution.
The parties acknowledge and agree that the primary objectives of this Deed are to:
commit to, and implement, the Commitment;
ensure co-operation between the parties to ensure the success of the Commitment; and
enable the parties to successfully undertake and meet their respective objectives and responsibilities under this Deed.
The general principles of conduct which the parties agree to observe and respect in their dealings with each other in achieving the objectives in clause 2.1 and satisfying their respective obligations under this Deed are to:
act in such a way as is consistent with and conducive to achievement of the stated objectives; and
deal with one another in good faith in all dealings, acts, matters and things and to co-operate with one another including conducting in good faith such discussions and negotiations as may be necessary or desirable to resolve amicably any difference or dispute which may arise between them.
In consideration of the mutual promises in this Deed the parties:
will comply with their respective obligations under the SSO Constitution, the SSO Regulations and all policies made by SSO;
commit to the Commitment from the date of this Deed until [INSERT DATE]; and
will meet the obligations and provide the respective services in the manner and as set out in the respective schedule as follows:

The parties agree that they cannot withdraw from this Deed and the Commitment unless:
they unanimously agree to release a party or parties from the Commitment; or
a party or parties winds up or amalgamates; or
the Region or Club ceases to be a Member of SSO.
Unless otherwise set out in this Deed the parties acknowledge and agree that:
the Commitment will be operated and managed by SSO; and
planning for the Commitment will be the responsibility of SSO.
A party may make any disclosure of the terms of this Deed that it thinks necessary to:
any professional advisers, auditors, bankers, financial advisers and financiers, on receipt of an undertaking from that person to keep the terms of this Deed confidential;
comply with any law or requirement of any regulatory body (including any relevant stock exchange); 
any employee or any employee of any Related Body Corporate (as defined in the Corporations Act) to whom it is necessary to disclose the terms, on receipt of an undertaking from that person to keep the terms of this Deed confidential; or
any shareholder or affiliate of the party, including any members, officers or councillors of a shareholder or affiliate of the party, provided that the Deed is not reproduced and distributed to such persons in part or in full.
The parties acknowledge that they enter into this Deed fully and voluntarily on their own information and investigation.
If any dispute or difference arises between any of the parties to this Deed under this Deed and they are unable to resolve the dispute or difference, then the dispute or difference will be resolved under the Grievance Procedure under the SSO Constitution.
Each party shall take all steps, execute all documents and do everything reasonably required by the other parties to give effect to the transactions contemplated by this Deed.
This Deed may be amended only by another deed executed by all parties.
The rights and obligations of each party under this Deed are personal.
They cannot be assigned, charged or otherwise dealt with, and no party shall attempt or purport to do so without the prior written consent of all the parties.
No failure to exercise and no delay in exercising any right, power or remedy under this Deed will operate as a waiver.
Nor will any single or partial exercise of any right, power or remedy preclude any other or further exercise of that or any other right, power or remedy.
This Deed may be executed in any number of counterparts.
All counterparts taken together will be taken to constitute one agreement.
This Deed is governed by the laws of New South Wales.
The parties submit to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of courts exercising jurisdiction there.



The Service Provider agrees to carry out the project specified in Item 1 of the Schedule (hereinafter referred to as "the Work") for NSW DET.
The Designated Officers of NSW DET and the Service Provider for the purpose of liaison are specified in Item 2 of the Schedule.
The Service Provider warrants that the Work shall be carried out in a conscientious, expeditious and workmanlike manner.
The Service Provider warrants it is aware of NSW DET's policies on Equal Employment Opportunity and Anti-Discrimination and will not act contrary to those policies while performing this Agreement.
The Service Provider agrees to complete the Work in the manner and to the standard specified in Item1 of the Schedule.
The Service Provider also agrees that all the terms of this Agreement are set out in this document.
The Service Provider agrees to make changes to the Work as required by the Designated Officer in the event that the Designated Officer reasonably determines that the Work has not been completed as set out in Item 1.
The Service Provider agrees to undertake the Work during the period specified in Item 3 of the Schedule

This Agreement shall neither be assigned nor sub-contracted by the Service Provider to any other party.
It is the express intention of the parties that nothing contained herein shall constitute the relationships of partnership, agency or employment between the parties.
This Agreement is for the provision by the Service Provider of the Work as a product or deliverable to NSW DET.
The Service Provider represents and warrants to NSW DET that the circumstances involving the provisions of the Work under the Agreement do not and will not attract the operation of the Superannuation Guarantee (Administration) Act 1992.
The Service Provider warrants to NSW DET that in undertaking the Work there shall be no infringement of any copyright vested in any other party.
Ownership of copyright of all materials produced pursuant to or arising from the performance of this Agreement shall vest solely in the Crown in the right of the State of New South Wales.
The Service Provider will not at any time either during the continuance or after the termination of the Work for any reason divulge any of the affairs (which but for a breach of this Agreement, are not within public knowledge) or secrets of NSW DET to any company, person, or persons without the previous written consent of NSW DET, nor use or attempt to use any information acquired by the Service Provider in the course of the Work in any manner which might injure or cause loss to NSW DET.
'Moral Rights' means rights of integrity of authorship, rights of attribution of authorship, rights not to have authorship falsely attributed, and rights of a similar nature confirmed by statute, that exist, or may come to exist anywhere in the world.
In performing the Work the Service Provider must not infringe or allow NSW DET to infringe the copyright or other intellectual property rights or Moral Rights of any person.
The Service Provider:
agrees that all copyright Moral Rights and other intellectual property rights in respect of material created in the performance of the Work vest, on creation, in the Crown in Right of NSW;
assigns, and shall ensure that any relevant third party assigns, to the Crown all copyright Moral Rights and other intellectual property rights in respect of material introduced in performing the Work; and
warrants that all the rights assigned to or vested in NSW DET under this Agreement do not and will not infringe the copyright Moral Rights or other intellectual property rights of any third party.
To the extent that NSW DET has expressly agreed in writing that the Service Provider may retain copyright, Moral Rights or other intellectual property rights which would otherwise be assigned or vest in accordance with this clause, 

the Contractor grants NSW DET an irrevocable and unrestricted licence to use those rights from the date of their creation for any purpose NSW DET sees fit, including the right to change, copy,  update, exhibit, sell, license and reproduce relevant material.
Consents (or where required, undertakes to obtain the consent of effected persons) for the benefit of NSW DET, its licensees, successors in title and anyone authorised by any of them to do acts or omissions (including acts or omissions which would otherwise infringe Moral Rights) in respect of material produced in performing the Work.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, unconditionally and irrevocably consents to such of the following acts or omissions (whether occurring before or after this Agreement) as would otherwise infringe the Moral Rights of the Service Provider in the material produced in performing the Work:-

all acts or omissions:

comprised in the copyright in the material produced in performing the Work;

otherwise licensed or permitted under this Agreement or the law to be done by NSW DET, its employees, contractors or licensees;

necessary to be done to allow NSW DET, its employees, contractors or licensees to enjoy the benefit of the material produced in performing the Work as envisaged by this Agreement.
The total amount for the performance of the Work is the sum specified in Item 4 of the Schedule and shall be paid in the manner specified in Item 5 of the Schedule.
The Service Provider agrees to supply such information and complete such forms as are necessary to permit NSW DET to comply with any statutory requirements arising from the relationship of the parties pursuant to this Agreement.
No additional sum shall be paid to the Service Provider in respect of any cost incurred in performing the Work or in respect of the premises and materials necessary for the performance of this Agreement, both of which are to be provided by the Service Provider.
Any payment for work done shall be made only after the Designated Officer is:
satisfied that the Work complies with this Agreement, and authorises such payment.
At the time of providing any invoice for payment relating to the provision of Work the Service Provider must produce evidence to the reasonable satisfaction of NSW DET that the circumstances surrounding the provision of the Work do not attract the operation of the Superannuation Guarantee (Administration) Act 1992.
If NSW DET is not so satisfied NSW DET shall withhold from payments otherwise due to the Service Provider such sum as may be necessary for NSW DET to comply with its obligations under the Superannuation Guarantee (Administration) Act 1992 and may pay monies so withheld as required by law.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement:

If a GST applies to any supply made by either party or in connection with this Agreement, the consideration provided or to be provided for that supply will be increased by an amount equal to the GST liability properly incurred by the party making the supply.
If the imposition of a GST or any subsequent change in the GST law is accompanied by or undertaken in connection with the abolition of or reduction in existing taxes, duties or statutory charges (in this clause "taxes"), the consideration payable by the recipient of the supply made under this Agreement will be reduced directly or indirectly as a consequence of the abolition of or reduction in taxes.
The parties agree to meet prior to the imposition of a GST in order to determine the variation of any consideration in accordance with the above.
Each party warrants that at the time any supply is made under this Agreement on which GST is imposed, the party is or will be registered under GST law.
If the other party requests written evidence of registration, the party claiming to be registered will promptly produce evidence satisfactory to the party seeking such evidence.
Any invoice rendered by a party to this Agreement in connection with supply under this Agreement which seeks to recover an amount of GST payable by that party must conform to the requirements for a tax invoice (as that term is defined in GST law).
If requested to do so by the recipient of the supply, the supplier must provide a tax invoice within 14 days.
The Service Provider shall be responsible for and shall indemnify and keep indemnified, NSW DET against liability for all loss, damage or injury (including injury arising in the course of performance of the Work) to persons or property caused by the Service Provider and the amount of all claims, damages, costs and expenses which may be paid, suffered or incurred by NSW DET in respect of any such loss, damage or injury shall be made good at the Service Provider's expense and may (in the first instance) be deducted from any moneys due or becoming due to the Service Provider with any balance being sued for as a debt.
The Service Provider shall effect all insurances required by law including all necessary insurance under the provision of any relevant workers compensation legislation and public liability and shall, if so required by NSW DET, produce evidence of such insurance and their currency.
The Service Provider warrants that there has been disclosed to the Designated Officer any commercial interest held by the Service Provider which might affect the outcome, the performance or services, or the marketing of the Work under this Agreement.
NSW DET may terminate this Agreement without prior notice should the Service Provider be guilty of any breach of this Agreement, or should the Service Provider refuse to comply with any reasonable instructions or directions given by the Designated Officer.
Should a dispute arise between the parties to this Agreement, then both parties shall make themselves immediately available to conduct bona fide negotiations in an effort to resolve the dispute.
Should the dispute not be settled during the negotiation period of twenty eight (28) days, then one party shall, by notice to the other party, require the other party to participate in conciliation to be handled and administered by the Australian Commercial Disputes Centre (ACDC) Ltd.
The party requesting conciliation will instruct the ACDC to appoint a conciliator and will request the ACDC to determine appropriate terms for conciliation.
The conciliation will be conducted in Sydney.
The cost of the conciliation will be borne equally by both parties.
In the event of agreement not being reached between the parties after a period of twenty eight (28) days after the appointment of the conciliator, the parties agree to abide by the decision of the conciliator in order to bring about resolution of the dispute.
The failure of NSW DET at any time to enforce any of the terms or provisions of this Agreement or to exercise any right hereunder shall not constitute a waiver of the terms and conditions or affect NSW DET's right thereafter to enforce the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
This Agreement shall be governed and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New South Wales and the parties hereby submit to the jurisdiction of the Courts of that State.
The signatories hereto hereby personally warrant that they have express and sufficient authority to execute this Agreement on behalf of the party on whose behalf they have signed.
The moneys to be paid under this Agreement shall be paid by way of cheque or electronic funds transfer on completion of the agreed work under this agreement and upon receipt of a tax invoice.
Payment will be made as follows:
eg.
Initial payment on completion of..
$0.00
eg.
Second payment on completion of..
$0.00
eg.
Final payment on completion of..
$0.00



The Owner will not sell, transfer, dispose of, assign, mortgage or otherwise part with possession of the subject land or any part of it without first disclosing to its successors the existence and nature of this Agreement.
The Owner will do all that is necessary to enable the Responsible Authority to make an application to the Registrar of Titles to make a recording of this Agreement on the Certificate of Title to the subject land in accordance with Section 181 of the Act, including the signing of any further agreement, acknowledgment or other document.
The Owner shall immediately on demand pay the reasonable legal costs and fees incurred and incidental to the preparation and execution of this Agreement and the registration hereof pursuant to Section 181 of the Act, together with all costs of enforcing this Agreement if deemed necessary by the Responsible Authority.
The Owner hereby agrees that any such costs are and remain a charge on the subject land until paid, and consents to the Responsible Authority registering a caveat on the Certificate of Title to the subject land in respect of any such costs and acknowledges that any such costs shall be capable of being recovered by the Responsible Authority in any court of competent jurisdiction as a civil debt recoverable.
That until such time as this Agreement is registered on the title to the subject land, the Owner shall ensure that successors in title will give effect to this Agreement, and do all acts and sign all documents which will require those successors to give effect to this Agreement, including executing a deed agreeing to be bound by the terms of this Agreement.
The Owner agrees to indemnify and keep indemnified the Responsible Authority from and against all costs, expenses, losses or damages that it may sustain, incur, suffer or be or become liable for or in respect of any suit, action, proceeding, judgment or claim brought by any person arising from or referable to this Agreement and/or any non-compliance with this Agreement.
The Owner agrees to allow the Responsible Authority to enter the subject land at any reasonable time to assess compliance with this Agreement.
The Owner warrants that:
It is the registered proprietor (or entitled to be so) of the subject land;
There are no mortgages, liens, charges or other encumbrances affecting the subject land which are not disclosed by the usual searches;
If the subject land is affected by a mortgage, the Mortgagee of the subject land consents to the Owner entering into this Agreement and the Agreement being registered on the title to the subject land.
The Owner acknowledges that any obligations imposed on the Owner under this Agreement take effect as separate and several covenants which are annexed to the subject land and run at law and in equity with the land and every part thereof and bind the Owner, its successors, assigns and transferees, and the registered proprietor for the time being of the whole or any part of the subject land.
The parties to this Agreement must do or cause to be done all things that are reasonably necessary to give effect to this Agreement.
If the Owner defaults or fails to perform any of its obligations under this Agreement the Responsible Authority may, without prejudice to any other remedies, rectify and remedy such default and the cost of doing so shall be borne by the Owner.
The Owner hereby consents to the Responsible Authority registering a caveat on the Certificate of Title to the subject land in respect of any such costs, and acknowledges that any such costs shall be capable of being recovered by the Responsible Authority in any court of competent jurisdiction as a civil debt recoverable.
Any time or other indulgence granted by the Responsible Authority to the Owner or any variation of the terms and conditions of this Agreement or any judgment or order obtained by the Responsible Authority against the Owner will not in any way amount to a waiver of any of the rights or remedies of the Responsible Authority in relation to the terms of this Agreement.
The Owner expressly acknowledges and agrees that nothing in this Agreement nor the performance by the Owner of any of its obligations under this Agreement does or will restrain, limit or otherwise fetter the exercise by the Responsible Authority of the powers, duties and discretions that the Responsible Authority has or may have (as planning authority, responsible authority or otherwise) under the Act or under the Planning Scheme to consider, approve, amend or to make any decision or impose any requirements or conditions in connection with the granting of any planning approval or certification relating to any use or development, or in relation to the commencement or initiation of any enforcement action or proceeding whatsoever.
This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement between the parties in connection with its subject matter and supercedes all previous Agreements or understandings between the parties in connection with its subject matter.
If a court, arbitrator, tribunal or other competent authority determines that a word, phrase, sentence, paragraph or clause of this Agreement is unenforceable, illegal or void then it shall be severed and the other provisions of this Agreement shall remain operative and be of full force and effect.
If there is a dispute between the parties concerning the interpretation or implementation of this Agreement, that dispute must be referred to the Tribunal for resolution to the extent permitted by the Act.
If there is a dispute concerning any matter which is not referable to the Tribunal under the Act, that dispute must be referred for arbitration by an Arbitrator agreed upon in writing by the parties, or, in the absence of such agreement the Chair of the Victorian Chapter of the Institute of Arbitrators Australia or his or her nominee, for arbitration.
The parties shall each be entitled to legal representation for the purposes of any proceedings or arbitration referred to clause 13 or 14 of this Agreement unless the Tribunal or arbitrator otherwise directs, and each party must bear its own costs.
Unless otherwise provided in this Agreement, this Agreement shall commence on the date of this Agreement.
Upon completion of the Owner's obligations under Clause X of this Agreement to the satisfaction of the Responsible Authority, the Responsible Authority shall consent to this Agreement ending and to the removal of the recording of the Agreement on the Certificate of Title to the land provided for in Clause 4.2 of this Agreement.


The Institutions entered a memorandum of understanding on [date] to establish a relationship under which they could jointly administer and award Conjoint Doctoral Degrees ("the MOU")
Under clause 2 of the MOU, the Institutions agreed, in principle, to enter Conjoint Arrangements in respect of suitable candidates, and that they would enter a candidate agreement in respect of each particular candidate.
The Institutions now wish to enter a Conjoint Arrangement in respect of the Candidate, on the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
The Institutions agree to:
accept the Candidate as a candidate for a Conjoint Doctoral Degree; and
jointly administer the Candidature in accordance with the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
The Candidate agrees to undertake a Conjoint Doctoral Degree between the  Institutions, on the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
This Agreement commences on the date the last party signs, and, subject to clause 3.3, will continue for the duration of the Candidature as governed by the normal Rules applicable at both institutions.
Without limiting clause 3.1, this Agreement will be terminated in any of the following circumstances:

upon successful completion of the Candidature, as confirmed by the award of a Conjoint Doctoral Degree by the Institutions in accordance with clause 10.1;
upon withdrawal by the Candidate from enrolment at either or both Institutions;
upon transfer by the student to a non-conjoint doctoral research degree at UTAS; or
upon termination of enrolment by either Institution in accordance with the normal Rules applicable at that Institution.
In the event of conflict between the Rules applicable at each Institution, the minimum and maximum times for completion of Candidature are those specified in Item 2.
The research topic for the Candidature is that specified in Item 3.
The Candidature will be undertaken partly at each Institution, in accordance with the arrangements specified in Item 4.
The Candidate, while enrolled at either Institution, will be subject to the normal Rules applicable at that institution.
Each Institution must, as appropriate, provide the Candidate with suitable orientation, including as to the cultural and academic expectations (including rules and discipline) applicable at that Institution.
The Candidate nominates the Institution specified in Item 5, as the Home Institution.
All Supervisors must comply with the normal Rules applicable to supervisors and supervision at their respective Institutions.
The parties agree to comply with Item 8 in relation to tuition fees.
The Candidate confirms that they are in receipt of the financial assistance specified in Item 9.
The Candidate is responsible for making all arrangements in relation to, and for paying for, the following:

travel and transport between the Institutions;
passport, visa, and other immigration formalities
travel and medical insurance;
accommodation;
living and personal expenses;
incidental expenses of any kind;
textbooks and other study materials and equipment;
fees or charges for any additional services or membership offered by either Institution and accepted by the Candidate;
any other arrangements or expenses, the obligation for which has not been assumed by an Institution under this Agreement.
Without limiting clause 7.1, the Institutions will endeavour to offer non-financial assistance to the Candidate as specified in Item 10, provided that ultimate responsibility remains with the Candidate.
The Candidate must complete: a thesis, on the research topic specified in Item 3;
of the length specified in Item 11;
written in the language specified in Item 12; and
including an abstract written in the language specified in Item 13; and
any other assessment requirements specified in Item 14;

which will form the basis for assessment of the Candidature.
The parties agree to comply with the process and obligations specified in Item 15, for assessment of the requirements referred to in clause 8.1(b).
Despite anything contained in Item 16, the Candidate will own copyright in the thesis they complete in accordance with clause 8.1(a).
Subject to the Candidate's successful completion of the Candidature in accordance with:
the applicable Rules of each Institution; and
this Agreement;

The Institutions will award the Candidate a Conjoint Doctoral Degree.
The award of the Conjoint Doctoral Degree will be evidenced in accordance with the testamur requirements specified in Item 17.
Location
Alternative periods of research will take place at UTAS and the Partner Institution.
The schedule and length of time spent at each Institution will depend on the progress and evolution of the research, and will be agreed separately between the parties, provided that at least 30% of the Candidature is completed at each Institution.
Supervision arrangements
While the Candidate is located at UTAS, the Candidature will be completed under the supervision of A and B.
While the Candidate is located at the Partner Institution, the Candidature will be completed under the supervision of C and D.  Include arrangements for travel and any other requirements.
Include details about communication of progress between the two institutions - how is it coordinated between the two?
The Candidate must pay all tuition fees applicable at the Home Institution for the duration of the Candidature.
The Host Institution agrees to waive all tuition fees that would otherwise be applicable in relation to the Candidature, for the duration of the Candidature.
Assistance
Each institution will, as appropriate, endeavour to assist the Candidate with arrangements for:
Length of thesis, language of thesis, language of abstract


The Convention on Biological Diversity and the Bonn Guidelines under it give parties to the Convention the responsibility to manage their biological diversity to ensure, inter alia, fair and equitable sharing of the benefits arising from the use of genetic resources.
Section 301 of the Environment Protection and Biodiversity Conservation Act 1999 (EPBC Act) provides for regulations to be made for the control of access to biological resources in Commonwealth areas, including the equitable sharing of the benefits arising from the use of biological resources in Commonwealth areas.
Part 8A of the Environment Protection and Biodiversity Conservation Regulations 2000 (EPBC Regulations) makes provisions for the purposes of section 301 of the EPBC Act.
The regulations require access to biological resources in a Commonwealth area to be in accordance with a permit under the regulations unless the biological resources have been declared exempt.
An applicant for a permit to access biological resources for commercial purposes or potential commercial must enter into a benefit-sharing agreement with each access provider for the resources.
The Commonwealth is the access provider for the purposes of Part 8A of the EPBC Regulations for biological resources in Commonwealth areas (as defined in the EPBC Act).
The Access Party is the applicant for, or intends to apply for, a permit under Part 8A of the EPBC Regulations to access the biological resources, in the Commonwealth area or areas, specified in Schedule 2 to this Deed.
This Deed constitutes a Benefit Sharing Agreement for the purposes of Part 8A of the EPBC Regulations.
In consideration of the Access Party entering into this Deed the Commonwealth grants the Access Party access to the biological resources, in the Commonwealth area or areas, specified in Schedule 2.
In consideration of the Commonwealth granting access the Access Party will access and use the biological resources in accordance with this Deed and will provide the Commonwealth with the benefits specified in Schedules 3 and 4 to this Deed.
This Deed, in conjunction with an access permit issued under Part 8A of the EPBC Regulations, gives the Access Party access to biological resources in the Access Area.
Access Area
means the Commonwealth area or areas specified in Schedule 2 where the Access Party may have access to biological resources;
Access Party
means the person or persons (individual or organisation) named as the Access Party and includes their officers, employees, agents and contractors, or any of them, where the context permits;
access to biological resources
has the meaning given by the EPBC Regulations and means the taking of biological resources of native species for research and development on any genetic resources, or biochemical compounds, comprising or contained in the biological resources, but does not include activities described in regulation 8A.03(3);
access permit
means a permit issued in accordance with Part 17 of the EPBC Regulations, for the purposes of Part 8A of the Regulations, authorising access to biological resources in the Access Area;
biological resources
has the meaning given by the EPBC Act and includes genetic resources, organisms, parts of organisms, populations and any other biotic component of an ecosystem with actual or potential use or value for humanity;
Business Day
in relation to the doing of any action in a place, means a weekday other than a public holiday in that place;
Commencement Date
means the date of this Deed;
Commonwealth area
has the meaning given by section 525 of the EPBC Act;
Confidential Information
means:
any information described as confidential in Schedule 1 to this Deed; and
any information that is agreed between the Parties after the Date of this Deed as constituting Confidential Information for the purposes of this Deed;
Deed
means this Deed, the Schedules to this Deed and any attachments;
Department
means the Department of the Environment, Water, Heritage and the Arts and includes any department or agency of the Commonwealth of Australia that succeeds to the functions of the Department;
EPBC Act
means the Environment Protection and Biodiversity Conservation Act 1999
EPBC Regulations
means the Environment Protection and Biodiversity Conservation Regulations 2000
Exploitation Revenue
means any monies received by the Access Party from third parties arising from the Access Party's use of biological resources, including monies received for:
transferring, delivering, or providing access to Samples or Products; or
assigning or granting rights (including Intellectual Property) in Samples or Products; or
Sale,
but not including funds received by the Access Party for the explicit purpose of research.
genetic resources
has the meaning given by the EPBC Act and means any material of plant, animal, microbial or other origin that contains functional units of heredity and that has actual or potential value for humanity;
Intellectual Property
Includes:
copyright
all rights in relation to inventions (including patent rights)
all rights in relation to plant varieties (including plant breeders rights); 
registered and unregistered trademarks (including service marks), designs, and circuit layouts, and 
all other rights resulting from intellectual activity;
know-how (whether patentable or not);
Material
means any matter or thing the subject of any category of property rights including Intellectual Property;
Product
means Material produced, obtained, extracted or derived through R & D Activity;
R & D Activity
means research or development on a Sample or Product;
Sample
means a sample of biological resources collected from the Access Area under a permit issued in conjunction with this Agreement;
Sale
means a payment received by the Access Party from a third party in consideration of the transfer to the third party of: 
Products; or
Material containing a Product,
by way of retail sale;
Threshold Payment
means the percentage of gross Exploitation Revenue to be paid by the Access Party to the Commonwealth in accordance with this Deed.
1.2.
Interpretation
In this Deed, unless the contrary intention appears:
words importing a gender include any other gender
words in the singular include the plural and words in the plural include the singular
clause headings are inserted for convenient reference only and have no effect in limiting or extending the language of provisions to which they refer
words importing a person include a partnership and a body whether corporate or otherwise
all references to dollars are to Australian dollars
a reference to any legislation or legislative provision includes any statutory modification substitution or re-enactment of such legislation or legislative provision
where any word or phrase is given a defined meaning, any other part of speech or other grammatical form in respect of that word or phrase has a corresponding meaning
reference to an Item is to an Item in a schedule
the schedules and any attachments form part of this Deed
reference to a schedule (or an attachment) is a reference to a schedule (or an attachment) to this Deed, including as amended or replaced from time to time by agreement in writing between the parties and
a reference to writing means any representation of words, figures or symbols, whether or not in a visible form.
This Deed records the entire agreement between the parties in relation to its subject matter.
This Deed may only be varied by a formal deed of variation executed by both parties.
As far as possible all provisions must be construed so as not to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable.
If anything in this Deed is unenforceable, illegal or void then it is severed and the rest of this Deed remains in force.
Any reading down or severance of a particular provision does not affect the other provisions of this Deed.
If a provision cannot be read down, that provision will be void and severable and the remaining provisions will not be affected.
A provision of this Deed Lease will not be construed to the disadvantage of a Party solely on the basis that it proposed that provision.
This Deed takes effect only if an access permit is issued to the Access Party for the proposed access to biological resources to which the Deed relates.
This Deed commences on the date a permit is issued to the Access Party to access biological resources to which the Deed relates.
The operation of this Deed will be reviewed at the request of either party.
The first review may be conducted 2 years after the Commencement Date, and further reviews may be conducted at intervals not less than 2 years.
The timing and form of reviews will be agreed between the parties.
Either party may request that a review be conducted by an independent person agreed by the parties, and the other party will accede to that request.
Where a review is conducted by an independent person:
the parties will provide all reasonable assistance to, and respond to all reasonable requests for information and assistance from, the person conducting the review; and
the cost of the review will be borne by the party requesting the review unless both parties agree beforehand to share equally the costs of the review.
The requirements of this Deed relating to Confidential Information will apply to the conduct of a review and the parties will take all practicable steps to ensure that the person conducting a review complies with those requirements.
The parties will discuss the findings and recommendations of each review and may agree to vary the terms and conditions of this Deed in accordance with clause 1.3.2.
The Access Party will provide the Commonwealth with the benefits specified in Schedule 3.
The Access Party will provide the Commonwealth with the additional benefits (if any) specified in Schedule 4.
Where the access to biological resources under this Deed leads to the discovery of new taxa, the Access Party must offer voucher specimens for permanent loan to an Australian public institution that is a repository of taxonomic specimens of the same order or genus as those collected.
In offering voucher specimens for permanent loan, the Access Party may set reasonable conditions for use of the loaned specimens.
The operation of this clause survives the expiration or earlier termination of this Deed.
In performing this Deed the Access Party will:
comply with the conditions specified in Schedule 2;
carry on its activities to a high standard and in accordance with relevant best practice, including any policies, codes of practice or guidelines specified in Schedule 1 or notified by the Commonwealth from time to time;
comply with the conditions of the Access Party's access permits;
comply with all relevant laws of the Commonwealth and any applicable laws of the States, Territories or local government;
obtain and hold all necessary approvals and licences; 
liaise with the Department, provide any information the Department may reasonably require and comply with any reasonable request made by the Department; and
Where any activity under this Deed involves the use and care of living non-human vertebrate animals or tissue for scientific purposes, the Access Party will obtain review of and approval for such scientific purposes from a recognised animal ethics committee operating under the Australian Code of Practice for the Care and Use of Animals for Scientific Purposes or equivalent body.
The Access Party will comply with all laws, policies, codes of practice and guidelines relating to animal welfare as they apply to the jurisdiction where the research will be undertaken.
Subject to this clause, as between the parties the Access Party has the exclusive rights to all Samples and Products.
As between the Commonwealth and the Access Party (but without affecting the position between the Access Party and a third party) Intellectual Property arising from R & D Activity is vested or will vest in the Access Party.
Dealings with Samples and Products and Intellectual Property 
Without limiting clause 5.2.1, the Access Party may grant third parties the right to exploit the Intellectual Property arising from R&D Activity.
The Access Party will not:
transfer, deliver or provide access to Samples or Products; or
transfer, assign or grant rights (including Intellectual Property) in Samples or Products,
a third party unless:
it does so under an agreement on proper terms, being terms consistent with this Deed so far as practicable and which would normally be contained in a contract, agreement or transaction between persons dealing with each other at arms length and from positions of comparable bargaining power; or
the third party has entered into an agreement with the Commonwealth, or provided an enforceable undertaking to the Commonwealth, to provide the Commonwealth with the benefits and to comply with the requirements of this clause 5.3.2 in the event of any further dealing;
An agreement under clause 5.3.2.c must ensure the Commonwealth will continue to receive an equitable share of the benefits arising from subsequent use of the Samples or Products, or the rights in those Samples or Products by the third party and any subsequent parties.
An agreement under clause 5.3.2.c relating to use of Samples or Products or associated Intellectual Property by a third party for non-commercial purposes must include an undertaking not to carry out, or allow others to use the Material for commercial purposes unless a benefit-sharing agreement has been entered into with the Access Party
The Access Party must provide the Commonwealth with the name of each third party that an agreement is made with under clause 5.3.2 and details of the terms of the agreement.
Moneys payable by the Access Party to the Commonwealth under this Deed will be paid annually following delivery of Annual Reports in accordance with this Deed and within 28 days following receipt of a correctly rendered tax invoice.
Subject to this clause, all taxes, duties and government charges imposed or levied in Australia or overseas in connection with this Deed must be borne by the party liable for them.
Amounts payable by the Access Party to the Commonwealth under this Deed will include an amount to cover any liability of the Commonwealth for GST on any supplies made by the Commonwealth under this Deed which are taxable supplies within the meaning of the GST Act.
In relation to taxable supplies made under this Deed, the Commonwealth will issue the Access Party a tax invoice in accordance with the GST Act.
GST has the meaning given to it in the GST Act
GST ACT means A New Tax System (Goods and Services Tax) Act 1999 (Cth).
The Access Party will acknowledge the provision of access to biological resources in Commonwealth areas in all dealings with third parties with respect to R & D Activity.
The Access Party will ensure that an agreement with a third party under clause 5.3.2.c includes a requirement that the third party acknowledges the Commonwealth is the access provider to the source Sample.
The operation of this clause survives the expiration or earlier termination of the Term of this Deed.
The Access Party will maintain complete, accurate and up to date accounts and records in relation to this Deed that:
include appropriate audit trails for transactions performed;
separately record all receipts;
be kept in such a manner that permits them to be conveniently and properly accessed and audited;
be drawn in accordance with generally accepted accounting practices and standards.
Without limiting clause 8.1.1 the Access Party accounts and records will enable tracking of Exploitation Revenue to ensure correct delivery of Threshold Payments to the Commonwealth.
The Access Party must hold accounts and records in relation to the provision of the Samples for a period of 7 years from the date of expiry or termination of this Deed.
The operation of this clause survives the expiration or earlier termination of the Term of this Deed.
Within six (6) months of collecting Samples under this Deed or on or before 31 March first occurring after collection, whichever is the later, the Access Party will provide a report to the Commonwealth containing the following records for each Sample taken:
for each record about a Sample, a unique identifier for the sample that is also on a label attached to the sample or its container;
the date the Sample was taken;
the place from which the Sample was taken and a description of the habitat from which the Sample was collected;
an appropriate indication of the quantity or size of the Sample;
the scientific name of, or given to, the Sample;
the location of the Sample when first entered in the record;
the details about any subsequent disposition of the Sample, including the names and addresses of others having possession of the Sample or a part of the Sample.
Where a report under clause 8.2.1 includes a Sample of an undescribed species the Sample must be given a unique identifier, and the Access Party must subsequently advise the Commonwealth the scientific name of, or given to, the Sample when described.
A Collection Report may be included in an Annual Report under 8.3.
The Access Party will provide an initial Annual Report to the Commonwealth on activities under this Deed in the period from the date this Deed commences to the end of the calendar year immediately following completion of the collection of Samples.
The report will include, but need not be limited to, the following information for the reporting period:
identification of this Deed as the Benefit Sharing Agreement to which the report relates;
a summary of all Samples collected under this Deed (including collection locations, summary of taxa collected and isolated);
results of research on the biology of the taxa and ecology assessments of populations from which the Samples were collected;
species inventories, ecological data and imagery for sites sampled;
summary of screening results, or other genetic or biochemical research results;
summary of structures found;
publications and conference presentations arising from research into the Samples;
research opportunities and capacity building opportunities provided in Australia;
progress in establishing third party agreements as they relate to the Samples;
Exploitation Revenue received from third parties and the Threshold Payments payable to the Commonwealth; and
Subsequent Annual Reports will report on activities for the preceding calendar year (the reporting period) and will include, but need not be limited to, the following information for the reporting period
identification of this Deed as the Benefit Sharing Agreement to which the report relates;
results of research on the biology of the taxa and ecology assessments of populations from which the Samples were collected;
species inventories, ecological data and imagery for sites sampled not included in previous Annual Reports;
summary of screening results, or other genetic or biochemical research results;
publications and conference presentations arising from research into the Samples;
the progress toward commercialisation of Products;
research opportunities and capacity building opportunities provided in Australia;
progress in establishing third party agreements as they relate to the Samples and Products;
Exploitation Revenue received from third parties and the Threshold Payments payable to the Commonwealth; and
Disposal of Samples and Products.
Annual Reports will be provided on or before 31 March in the year following the year to which the report relates.
The Access Party will provide such other reports as may reasonably be requested by the Commonwealth from time to time.
Annual Reports will be provided by the Access Party in two Parts:
the first part will only contain information considered by the Access Party to be non-confidential and may be made available to the public by the Commonwealth without prior consent of the Access Party, and may be published by the Access Party for publicity purposes;
the second part will contain information the Access Party reasonably requires to be treated as commercial-in-confidence for the purpose of protection of Intellectual Property,
and any material identified as commercial-in-confidence will be Confidential Information for the purposes of this Deed.All reports provided by the Access Party under this Deed will be provided in hard copy and digital copy.
Subject to clause 9.1.5, a Party must not, without the prior written consent of the other Party, use or disclose any Confidential Information of the other Party.
In giving written consent to use or disclose its Confidential Information, a Party may impose such conditions as it thinks fit, and the other Party agrees to comply with these conditions.
A Party may at any time require the other Party to arrange for the other Party's employees, servants or agents to give a written undertaking in the form of a Deed relating to the use and non-disclosure of the first Party's Confidential Information.
If a Party receives a request under clause 9.1.3, it must promptly arrange for all such undertakings to be given.
The obligations on a Party under this clause will not be taken to have been breached to the extent that Confidential Information:
is disclosed by a Party to its employees, servants or agents solely in order to comply with obligations, or to exercise rights, under this Deed;
is disclosed to a Party's internal management personnel, solely to enable effective management or auditing of activities related to this Deed;
is disclosed by the Department to the Department's Minister;
is shared by a Party within its organisation, or in the case of the Department with another Commonwealth department or agency, where this serves the Party's legitimate interests;
is disclosed by a Party, in response to a request by a House or a Committee of the Parliament of the Commonwealth of Australia;
is authorised or required by law to be disclosed;
is disclosed by a Party and is information in a material form in respect of which an interest, whether by licence or otherwise, in the Intellectual Property Rights in relation to that material form, has vested in, or is assigned to, the Party under this Deed or otherwise, and that disclosure is permitted by that licence or otherwise; or
is in the public domain otherwise than due to a breach of this clause.
Where a Party discloses Confidential Information to another person:
pursuant to clauses 9.1.5 (a), (b) or (d) - the disclosing Party must:
notify the receiving person that the information is Confidential Information; and
not provide the information unless the receiving person agrees to keep the information confidential; or
pursuant to clauses 9.1.5 (c) or (e) - the disclosing Party must notify the receiving person that the information is Confidential Information.
The obligations under this clause continue, notwithstanding the expiry or termination of the Term of this Deed:
in relation to an item of information described in Schedule 1 - for the period set out in the Schedule in respect of that item; and
in relation to any information that is agreed between the Parties after the Date of this Deed as constituting Confidential Information for the purposes of this Deed - for the period agreed by the Parties.
Nothing in this clause derogates from any obligation which the Access Party may have either under the Privacy Act, or under this Deed, in relation to the protection of Personal Information.
The Access Party indemnifies (and keeps indemnified) the Commonwealth against any: 
loss or liability incurred by the Commonwealth; 
loss of or damage to the Commonwealth's property; or
loss or expense incurred by the Commonwealth in dealing with any claim against the Commonwealth, including legal costs and expenses on a solicitor/own client basis and the cost of time spent, resources used, or disbursements paid by the Commonwealth; 
arising from: 
any act or omission by the Access Party in connection with this Deed, where there was fault on the part of the person whose conduct gave rise to that liability, loss, damage, or expense; 
any breach by the Access Party of its obligations under this Deed; 
the Access Party's liability to indemnify the Commonwealth under this clause will be reduced proportionally to the extent that any fault on the Commonwealth's part contributed to the relevant loss, damage, expense, or liability.
The Commonwealth's right to be indemnified under this clause is in addition to, and not exclusive of, any other right, power, or remedy provided by law, but the Commonwealth is not entitled to be compensated in excess of the amount of the relevant liability, damage, loss, or expense.
In this clause, "fault" means any negligent or unlawful act or omission or wilful misconduct.
This operation of this clause survives the expiration or earlier termination of the Term of this Deed.
The Access Party must, for as long as any obligations remain in connection with this Deed, have insurance as specified in Schedule 1.
Whenever requested, the Access Party must provide the Department, within 10 Business Days of the request, with evidence satisfactory to the Department that the Access Party has complied with its obligation to insure.
All insurance under this clause is to be taken out with an insurer recognised under Australian law, and whenever requested, the Access Party must provide the Department with evidence satisfactory to the Department that the Access Party has complied with its obligation to insure.
The operation of this clause survives the expiration or earlier termination of the Term of this Deed.
The Access Party will give to the Commonwealth, or to any persons authorised in writing by the Commonwealth's, access to premises occupied by the Access Party and permit those persons to participate in audits, inspect and take copies of any Material relevant to this Deed.
The rights referred to in clause 12.1.1 are subject to:
the provision of reasonable prior notice by the Commonwealth;
the Access Party's reasonable security procedures;
if appropriate, execution of a deed of confidentiality relating to non-disclosure of the Access Party's Confidential Information; and
the Commonwealth not unreasonably interfering with the Access Party's performance under this Deed in any material respect.
Without in any way affecting the statutory powers of the Auditor-General under the Auditor-General Act 1997 (Cth) and subject to the provisions of that Act, the Auditor-General is a person authorised for the purposes of this clause.
This clause applies for the Term of this Deed and for a period of 7 years from the date of termination of this Deed.
This Deed may be terminated at any time by mutual agreement in writing.
If the permit issued to the Access Party to access biological resources to which the Deed relates is cancelled the Commonwealth may immediately terminate this Deed by written notice to the Access Party.
If:
the Access Party fails to satisfy any of its obligations under this Deed;
the Access Party breaches any law of the Commonwealth, or of a State or Territory in relation to the subject matter of this Deed;
the Commonwealth is satisfied that any statement made, or document provided, to the Commonwealth by the Access Party in connection with this Deed is defective by reason of being incorrect, incomplete, false or misleading,
the Commonwealth may immediately terminate this Deed by giving written notice to the Access Party of the termination provided:
the Commonwealth has given notice to the Access Party; and
the Access Party fails within the period specified in the notice (being not less than 20 Business Days) to rectify or explain to the satisfaction of the Commonwealth the failure, breach or defect.
If this Deed is terminated under clause 13.2.2 or 13.2.3:
the Access Party will not thereafter use, or cause, permit or allow to be used:
any Samples or Products;
Intellectual Property arising from R & D Activity;
the Access Party will deliver to the Commonwealth or destroy, at the Commonwealth's discretion, all Samples and Products that are the subject of this Agreement; and
the Access Party's rights in all third party agreements referred to in clause 5.3.2, are assigned to the Commonwealth and the Access Party will do all things, and sign all documents, necessary to effect the assignment of those rights,
and the operation of this clause 13.2.2 survives the termination of this Deed.
Termination under this clause will not affect the right of the Access Party to sell Products or material containing a Product, by way of retail sale under commercial arrangements existing at the date of termination, and the Access Party's obligation to provide Exploitation Revenue in accordance with Schedule 3 will survive the termination.
Subject to clause 14.2.2, both Parties agree not to commence any legal proceedings in respect of any dispute arising under this Deed, which cannot be resolved by informal discussion, until the procedure provided by this clause has been utilised.
Both Parties agree that any dispute arising during the course of this Deed is dealt with as follows:
the Party claiming that there is a dispute will send the other a written notice setting out the nature of the dispute;
the Parties will try to resolve the dispute though direct negotiation by persons who they have given authority to resolve the dispute;
the Parties have 20 Business Days from the receipt of the notice to reach a resolution or to agree that the dispute is to be submitted to mediation or some alternative dispute resolution procedure; and
if:
there is no resolution of the dispute;
there is no agreement on submission of the dispute to mediation or some alternative dispute resolution procedure; or
there is a submission to mediation or some other form of alternative dispute resolution procedure, but there is no resolution within 20 Business Days of the submission, or such extended time as the Parties may agree in writing before the expiration of the 20 Business Days,
then, either Party may commence legal proceedings.
This clause does not apply to the following circumstances:
either Party commences legal proceedings for urgent interlocutory relief;
termination for default under clause 13 ;or
an authority of the Commonwealth, a State or Territory is investigating a breach or suspected breach of the law by the Access Party.
Despite the existence of a dispute, both Parties must (unless requested in writing by the other Party not to do so) continue to perform their respective obligations in accordance with this Deed.
The operation of this clause survives the expiration or earlier termination of the Term of this Deed.
The Access Party agrees not to represent itself, and to use its best endeavours to ensure that its Personnel do not represent themselves, as being an officer, employee, partner or agent of the Commonwealth, or as otherwise able to bind or represent the Commonwealth.
The Access Party is not by virtue of this Deed an officer, employee, partner or agent of the Commonwealth, nor does the Access Party have any power or authority to bind or represent the Commonwealth.
A failure or delay by a party to exercise any right it holds under this Deed will not operate as a waiver of that right.
A single or partial exercise by a party of any right it holds under this Deed will not prevent that party from exercising that right again or exercising that right to the extent it has not already been exercised.
In this clause, the word "right" means a right or remedy provided by this Deed or at law.
Except as otherwise provided by this Deed, the Access Party cannot novate its obligations and must not assign its rights, under this Deed without, in either case, prior approval in writing from the Commonwealth, which will not be unreasonably withheld.
The Access Party must not consult with any other person for the purposes of entering into an arrangement that will require novation of this Deed without first consulting the Commonwealth.
Any notice, request or other communication to be given or served pursuant to this Deed will be in writing and dealt with as follows:
if given by the Access Party to the Commonwealth - addressed as specified in Item D [Commonwealth Address for Notices] of Schedule 1 or
if given by the Commonwealth to the Access Party - addressed as specified in Item E [the Access Party Address for Notices] of Schedule 1.
Any notice, request or other communication is to be delivered by hand, sent by prepaid post or transmitted electronically.
If it is sent or transmitted electronically, a copy is to be sent to the addressee by prepaid post.
A notice will only be deemed as given and received:
if delivered by hand, upon delivery to the relevant address
if sent by pre-paid ordinary post within Australia, upon the expiration of 2 business days after the date on which it was sent
if transmitted electronically, upon receipt by the sender of an acknowledgment that the communication has been properly transmitted to the recipient and
in any event, if received after 5.00pm (local time in the place of receipt) on a Business Day or on a day that is not a Business Day, on the next Business Day.
Either party may, by written notice to the other, change its Representative.
This Deed is to be construed in accordance with the laws of the Australian Capital Territory.
Public liability insurance to the value of at least $10 million per claim, or occurrence giving rise to a claim, in respect to activities undertaken under this Deed, where occurrence means either a single occurrence or a series of occurrences if these are linked or occur in connection with one another from one original cause, as the case may be.
Threshold payments will be paid annually by the Access Party within 28 days after receipt of a correctly tendered tax invoice.
The Access Party will offer a taxonomic duplicate of each Sample taken to an Australian public institution which has a statutory responsibility to maintain biological collections, or another institution approved by the Commonwealth, that is a repository of taxonomic specimens of the same order or genus as those collected for permanent loan.
Within 3 months of the date of offer under B1, the Access Party must notify the Commonwealth of the name of the Australian public institution(s) to which the duplicate Sample(s) have been offered, the date of the offer, a list of the Sample(s) offered and indicate which Samples were accepted by that institution.
The Access Party agrees that the offer of a taxonomic duplicate of Samples to an institution will include that they may be used for genetic analysis for the International Barcode of Life project.
The Access Party may impose reasonable conditions on offers made under B1and B3 including, without limiting the generality of the foregoing that the receiving institution may only use the specimens for non-commercial purposes.
The Access Party agrees that knowledge and information, which is not Confidential Information, contained in reports to the Commonwealth, that is relevant to the taxonomy, conservation or sustainable use of biological diversity may be transferred to Australian research institutions, the Atlas of Living Australia, the Census of Marine Life, managers of Commonwealth areas, or to Indigenous Access Providers for non-commercial purposes.
The Access Party will notify the Commonwealth of publications arising from research involving the Samples and supply an electronic or hard copy of such publications on request.
A range of monetary and non-monetary benefits may be provided in return for access to biological resources.
A broad range of benefits are outlined in the Convention on Biological Diversity's 'Bonn Guidelines on Access to Genetic Resources and Equitable Sharing of the Benefits Arising out of their Utilization' (http://www.cbd.int/doc/publications/cbd-bonn-gdls-en.pdf).
The following clauses are offered by way of example only.
The Access Party will keep the Commonwealth aware of all field trips that will include access to biological resources in the Access Area.
The Commonwealth has the option to request that additional research be conducted on these field trips.
The Commonwealth will meet the reasonable costs of additional research under clause A.2 with terms and conditions to be negotiated with the Access Party separately to the negotiations around this Deed.
The Access Party will provide research funding to a local research institution to conduct research on species collected as Samples or the ecosystem from which they were collected.
The Access Party will enter into a joint venture with
an Australian research institution to conduct research on species collected as Samples or the ecosystem from which they were collected; 
an Australian company or research institution to undertake bioactivity screening, preclinical and/or clinical trials or otherwise develop commercial products containing the Sample or a Product.
The Access Party will transfer to an Australian research institution or to Indigenous Access Providers knowledge to make use of genetic resources, including biotechnology, or knowledge that is relevant to the conservation and sustainable use of biological diversity.
The Access Party will transfer to an Australian research institution technology to make use of genetic resources, including biotechnology, or technology that is relevant to the conservation and sustainable use of biological diversity.
The terms of transfer will be negotiated with the receiving institution, and should be developed under fair and favourable terms, including concessional and preferential terms.
The Access Party will collaborate with Australian research institutions and contribute to scientific research and development programmes, particularly biotechnological research activities.
CMAA will let to the Hirer and the Hirer will hire from the CMAA:
the room or rooms specified in Item 2 of the Schedule hereto; and
the office furniture and equipment more particularly described in Item 3 of the Schedule hereto,
for the period specified in Item 4 of the Schedule hereto and otherwise on the terms and conditions contained in this Agreement.
The Hirer shall pay to CMAA in cash the hiring fee specified in Item 5 of the Schedule hereto immediately upon the conclusion of the period referred to in Item 4.
At the commencement of the period referred to in Item 4, the Hirer shall pay to CMAA in cash a deposit equivalent to ten percent of the hiring fee referred to in Item 5.
In the event that here is any delay by the Hirer in the payment of the hiring fee, interest shall accrue thereon at not less than 12% per annum and shall be calculated from the expiry of the hiring period up to and including the date of actual payment.
The Hirer will not use the room or rooms and equipment specified in Items 2 and 3 of the Schedule for any purpose other than that which is specified in Item 7 of the Schedule hereto.
The Hirer, its servants agents contractors and invitees will refrain from doing any act or thing which will directly or indirectly cause damage to any part of the said room or rooms or to the said equipment.
In the event that, during the hiring period referred to in Item 4 of the Schedule, any damage of any kind occurs to any part of the room or rooms specified in Item 2 of the Schedule or to any part of the equipment specified in Item 3 of the Schedule, the Hirer will pay to CMAA, on demand, in addition to the hiring fee specified in Item 5 of the Schedule, a sum equivalent to the cost of repair of such damaged or, if such damage is not reasonably capable of being repaired, the full replacement cost of the damaged items.
During the hiring period the Hirer its servants agents customers contractors and invitee shall be at liberty to use in common with other occupiers of the premises (including CMAA) and all other persons entitled to use them the common entrances, washrooms, lavatories, stairways, halls, corridors, vestibules and any other such areas intended from time to time for common use by occupiers of the premises but only during the hiring period.
The Hirer covenants for itself its servants agents contractors customers and invitees that it will not during the hiring period do any act or thing whatsoever which shall or may be to the annoyance, nuisance, grievance, damage or disturbance or the other occupiers of the premises (including CMAA).
Immediately upon the expiration of the hiring period the Hirer shall deliver and yield up possession of the room, rooms or theatre and all equipment to CMAA.
CMAA may at all reasonable times enter upon the room or rooms to view the state of repair thereof or the furniture and equipment therein and to carry out repairs and/or replacement works or otherwise to ensure that the Hirer complies with its obligations pursuant to this Agreement.
The Hirer convenants for itself its servants agents contractors customers and invitees not to use or permit to be used for any other purposes than those for which they were constructed the lavatories, conveniences and the water or lighting or heating or airconditioning apparatus any sweepings, rubbish or other unsuitable substances and the Hirer shall and does hereby indemnify CMAA against and, on demand, shall pay to CMAA for any damage resulting to such lavatories, conveniences or apparatus during the hiring period immediately upon receipt by the Hirer of an itemised account thereof.
The Hirer will effect and keep in operation during the hiring period a public risk policy for a minimum cover of $10,000,000.00 with a reputable licensed insurance company.
Such insurance shall extend to cover death or injury to any person and damage to any property of any such person sustained when such a person is using, entering, exiting or near the room or rooms and a Certificate of Currency of such insurance shall be produced for inspection by the Hirer to CMAA prior to the commencement of the hiring period.
The Hirer will not at any time itself or through its servants, agents, contractors, customers or invitees do permit or suffer to be done any act matter of thing upon the premises whereby any insurances in respect thereof may be vitiated or rendered void or voidable or whereby the rate of premium on any insurance shall be liable to be increased.
The Hirer shall comply with insurance, sprinkler and fire alarm regulations in respect to any partitions erected upon the premises and will ensure similar compliance by its servants, agents, contractors, customers and invitees during the hiring period.
The Hirer shall maintain workers' compensation insurance covering all persons employed by the Hirer and with respect to whom death or bodily injury claims be asserted against CMAA.
The Hirer agrees to occupy and use the rooms and the equipment at the risk of the Hirer and hereby releases to the fullest extent permitted by law the CMAA and its agents, servants, contractors, customers and invitees from all claims and demands of every kind resulting from any accident, damage or injury occurring during the hiring period.
The Hirer hereby indemnifies and releases CMAA from and against all actions, claims, demands, losses, damages, costs and expenses of any nature for which CMAA or any other occupier of the premises shall be or may become liable in respect of or arising from:

The negligent use, misuse, waste or abuse by the Hirer or any servant, agent, contractor, customer or invitee of the Hirer of the water, electricity, lighting and other services and facilities provided pursuant to this Agreement.
Loss, damage or injury from any cause whatsoever to property or person within the rooms or the common areas occasioned or contributed to by an act, omission, neglect, breach or default of the Hirer or any servant, agent, contractor, customer, invitee, licensee or guest of the Hirer; and
Loss, damage or injury from any cause whatsoever to property or person caused or contributed to by the use or occupation of the rooms during the hiring period howsoever caused.
The Hirer shall indemnify and release and further keep indemnified and released CMAA from and against all claims, demands, writs, summonses, actions, suits, proceedings, judgments, orders, decrees, costs, losses and expenses of any nature whatsoever which CMAA may suffer or incur or become liable to suffer or incur in connection with loss of life, personal injury and/or damage to persons or property of any nature arising directly or indirectly out of the granting of rights to the Hirer pursuant to this Agreement pr fro any occurrence in, upon, at, or near the rooms or any part thereof, or to any person or property of any person using or entering upon or in any entrance, passage, vestibule to, into or of the rooms or the premises or attributable to, or caused by, or arising from, in any way, the glass windows and partitioning in or about the premises or occasioned whatsoever within the premises by any act, neglect, default or omission of the Hirer its servants, agents, contractors, customers, invitees, licensees or guests.
Notwithstanding anything herein contained CMAA gives no warranty, promise, representation or undertaking as the use to which the rooms may be put or the suitability thereof for any purpose and the Hirer shall satisfy itself in that respect and shall be deemed to have accepted the same with full knowledge of and subject to any prohibitions or restrictions on the use thereof under or in pursuance of any Act, ordinances, regulations or by-laws.
Should the purpose referred to in Item 7 of the Schedule hereto be permissible only with the consent of any statutory, public, municipal or other proper authority the Hirer shall obtain such consent at its own expenses.
CMAA and the Hirer further covenant and agree that nothing herein contained shall be deemed or construed by the parties hereto nor by any third party to create a relationship of partnership or of principal and agent or of joint venture between the parties hereto.
The Hirer acknowledges that the rights conferred upon it by this Agreement shall be of a contractual nature only and shall not confer upon the Hirer any legal or equitable estate or interest in the rooms or the premises or the property of which they comprise a part.
All notices or demands may be served on the Hirer at its address specified in this Agreement or as such other address of which the Hirer may have informed CMAA in writing by hand or by post and if by post shall be deemed to be served when the same would in the due course of post reach the address to which it is sent.
Any notice given by the Hirer to CMAA shall not be effective until the same is actually received by CMAA and comes to its knowledge.
I/We the undersigned, guarantee that I/We have read and understood the above Venue Hire agreement.

	



This Agreement will commence on the date of last signature will remain in force until the first to occur of:
the end date specified in the Project Plan;
completion of the Project; or
the Company terminates the Project in accordance with this Agreement

The Company shall:
seek and accept from each Project Participant the cash component of its Project Contribution; 
credit all such amounts received into the Centre's Account;
draw on the Centre's Account to make payment of any Project Funds; and
draw on the Centre Account to meet the other costs identified under this Agreement, including:
the costs associated with the protection of Project IP; and
the costs associated with Commercialising Project IP, including legal and other professional fees.
Each Project Participant must pay its cash Project Contributions to the Company at the times and in the manner specified in the Project Plan.
The cash component of a Participant's Contribution will be a debt due by that Participant to the Company without further proof of debt by the Company.
If any of the following requirements are not met to the satisfaction of a Project Participant that has provided cash Project Contributions (through no fault of that Project Participant), the Project Participant may withhold further cash Project Contributions until the following requirements are met to its satisfaction: 
compliance with any payment pre-conditions set out in the Project Details; and
provision of all Deliverables by the required dates included in the Project Details and in a manner satisfactory to the Project Participant; and 
provision of the reports required under clause 15.1 of this Agreement.
Project Contributions to a Project by Parties must be specified in the Project Details.
Each Party must make its non-cash Project Contributions available for the Project at the times and in the manner specified in the Project Plan.
The Company must make its non-cash Project Contributions available for the Project at the times and in the manner specified in the Project Details.
The valuation of non-cash Project Contributions for the purposes of this Agreement must be in accordance with the Valuation Principles and must exclude the value of Intellectual Property contributions.
If a Project Participant employs the Project Leader, that Project Participant appoints the Project Leader to manage the Project and to report to the Company in accordance with clauses 10 and 15.
Subject to clause 6.3, the Company must pay the Project Funds to the Project Participants in accordance with the Project Plan.
The Company: 
may withhold Project Funds from the Project Participants if any Milestones have not been achieved or Deliverables have not been provided by their required dates; 
may withhold Project Funds from any Project Participant if that Project Participant has failed to comply with clause 12;
must release the withheld Project Funds once the Project Participants have achieved the missed Milestones or provided the required Deliverables or information, as the case requires; and
if a Project Participant has provided cash Project Contributions in excess of the amount required for a Project, repay those unexpended funds to that Project Participant when the Project is completed.
If a Project Participant has not paid a cash Project Contribution that is due to the Company in accordance with the Project Plan, the Company is relieved from its obligation to pay to the Project Participants that part of the Project Funds corresponding to those unpaid cash Project Contributions while they remain unpaid.
The obligations of the Project Participants to carry out the Project will be reduced to the extent of any Project Funds withheld pursuant to this clause 6.3.
The Project Participants must use the Project Funds and other Project Contributions provided to them:
for the purposes of the Project only; and
in accordance with the Project Plan.
Each Party agrees to make its Specified Personnel available for the Project in accordance with arrangements agreed between the relevant Project Participant and the Company, which will include time commitment of Specified Personnel, responsibilities and provisions for management of conflicts.
Specified Personnel of each Project Participant will remain subject to the terms and conditions of employment of that Project Participant and will be replaced on reasonable request by the Company in accordance with the Commonwealth Agreement.
Each Party must ensure that any Project IP created by any of its Specified Personnel will be owned and dealt with according to the provisions of this Agreement.
A Project Participant may withdraw any of its Specified Personnel upon 90 days' notice to the Company provided it provides replacements for such personnel who are reasonably acceptable to the Company.
The Company may withdraw any of its Specified Personnel upon 90 days' notice to the Project Participants provided it provides replacements for such personnel who are reasonably acceptable to the Project Participants.
Where a Party is unable to provide 90 days' notice (for example due to sudden resignation of Specified Personnel) it must give the maximum amount of notice available in the circumstances.
During the Term each Party must:
make its Contributed Assets available for the Project and use by another Party as and when required;
in the case of Contributed Assets of the Project Participants, only move a Contributed Asset from the premises at which it was originally if it first obtains written approval from the Company;
not sell, hire, charge, mortgage, pledge or otherwise encumber its Contributed Assets in a way that would render them unavailable for the Project; and
be responsible for insurance, maintenance and, if required, repair and replacement of its Contributed Assets, and be responsible for any other costs and liabilities associated with its Contributed Assets.
The Company may, at its discretion, treat the costs mentioned in clause 9.2(4), or part of them, as an additional Project Contribution by the Contributed Asset owner and must notify the owner of the Contributed Asset of the amount that will be treated as an additional Project Contribution.
Nothing in this Agreement shall be taken to in any way authorise or permit the Company to incur any liabilities or undertake any obligations on behalf of, or in the names of, any of the Project Participants except as specifically authorised in this Agreement.
Each Project Participant must keep separate financial accounts which must record:
the cash component of its Project Contribution;
any payment of Project Funds made to it by the Company;
all expenditure incurred by the Project Participant from payment of Project Funds in carrying out the Project; 
any royalties or licence fees paid to it by the Company; and
any other expenditure associated with its carrying out the Project.
The Company shall keep separate financial accounts which shall record:
the cash component of all Project Contributions received;
the Company's payments of Project Funds to the Project Participants and third parties; and
income from Commercialisation of Project IP.
Each Project Participant must provide to the Company, within 14 days of a written request from the Company:
all necessary information from the accounts referred to in clause 11, for the Company to:
comply with the financial reporting requirements contained in the Commonwealth Agreement;
report to the Project Participants as required under this Agreement; or 
conduct its operations in accordance with best practice principles of governance; and
any other information reasonably requested by the Company relating to the Projects involving the Project Participant including that required to meet the reporting and monitoring requirements in the Commonwealth Agreement.
Each Project Participant is responsible for keeping separate documentation that records each non-cash Project Contribution and it must provide such documentation to the Company if reasonably requested to do so by the Company.
Each Project shall be managed by a Project Leader.
The Project Party that employs the Project Leader must use its reasonable efforts to ensure that the Project Leader:
uses his or her reasonable efforts to ensure the Project is conducted:
in accordance with the Project Plan;
so as to achieve the Milestones and Project Objectives; and 
so as to provide the Deliverables;
manages the day to day conduct of the Project;
provides scientific leadership to the Project;
is responsible for administration of all Project personnel including any students; and
maintains financial records and research and technical records as directed by the Company.
A Project Participant that employs the Project Leader must:
immediately report to the Company:
any substantial deviation from the Project Plan; and
any matter which the Project Leader considers will, or may, affect the ability of the Project to meet the Project Objectives, satisfy any Milestones, provide any Deliverables or be completed within the Project Budget, including any failure to provide Project Contributions; 
provide a report to the Company every three months on:
progress with the Project and its scientific advances, outcomes, key achievements, Deliverables and Milestones;
any matter which the Project Leader considers will, or may, affect the ability of the Project to meet the Project Objectives, satisfy any Milestones, provide any Deliverables or be completed within the Project Budget, including any failure to provide Project Contributions;
any significant difficulties encountered during the Project and measures taken or plans to resolve them;
any Project IP created (including a description of the Project IP, when it was created and by whom); and
the Background IP used in the Project.
The Parties acknowledge that a Project Participant employing the Project Leader will require information on the status and results of the Project from time to time in order to fulfil its obligations under this Agreement.
Each Project Party agrees to provide such information in a timely fashion when requested by the Project Leader.
The Project Participants must carry out the Project:
in accordance with the Project Plan, including the Project Budget;
to a high standard; 
so as to do all things necessary or desirable to achieve the Project Objectives; 
so as to achieve the Milestones by their required dates; 
so as to provide the Deliverables by their required dates; and
in accordance with the Project Leader's reasonable directions.
Each Party will make its Background IP available to the Project as specified in the applicable Project Details and this clause.
Each Party represents and warrants to the other Parties that:
as far as it is aware, without having made any enquiry, at the date it is provided for the relevant Project,  it is the owner of, or is otherwise entitled to provide, the Background IP which it makes available for the Project; 
except to the extent: 
disclosed in the Project Details; or
in the case of any Background IP not specified in the Project Details, notified in writing to the other Parties at the time of offering such Background IP, 
the Party has not entered any agreement regarding, or otherwise dealt with, that Background IP that is inconsistent with the rights granted to the other Parties as described in the Project Details or this clause; and
it will not enter any agreement in relation to or otherwise deal with that Background IP in a manner that restricts the exercise of the rights granted to the other Parties as described in the Project Details or this clause.
Each Project Participant will grant a licence to the Company, on reasonable terms to be agreed by the Project Participant and the Company, to use the Project Participant's Background IP for the purposes of Commercialising Project IP from the Project (including the right to sub-licence) provided that: 
the Project IP has been developed using that Background IP in accordance with this Agreement and, where applicable, the relevant Project Details; and 
that Background IP is required for the Commercialisation of such Project IP
subject to any restrictions on its use specified or notified in accordance with clause 19.
The Company will grant a licence to the Project Participants, on the terms set out in clause 18 and any other reasonable terms to be agreed by the Company, to use the Centre IP for the purposes of the Project.
Subject to the rights granted in this Agreement, the Parties acknowledge and agree that a Party retains the right to control its Background IP and that ownership of the Background IP does not change.
The Company shall maintain a register recording all Background IP under this Agreement, including any encumbrances or restrictions on its use specified or notified in accordance with clause19.
The Parties agree that they will take all necessary steps to give each other prompt notice of any infringement of Background IP that comes to their attention.
Upon its creation, Project IP will be owned as follows:
the Company will be the owner of the legal interest in the Project IP; 
the beneficial interest in the Project IP will be owned by: 
the Project Participants; and
the Company, as tenants in common in the Project Shares, and
the Company will hold the interest of the Project Participants in the Project IP on trust.
The Parties must co-operate and promptly do all acts and things and execute all documents which may be necessary for the purpose of vesting ownership of the legal and beneficial interest in the Project IP as required under this Agreement.
Each Project Participant must:
use its reasonable efforts to ensure that itself and its employees, agents, contractors, students under their supervision or other persons participating in the Project:
respond to a request from the Company to provide information in its possession about Project IP that has been developed by the Project Participant or is under development by the Project Participant;
identify Project IP generated or developed by them;
promptly communicate details of the Project IP to the Project Leader; and
do not prejudice protection of Project IP; 
do not use, Commercialise, dispose of, encumber or otherwise deal with or enter any agreement in relation to any interest that it might hold in Project IP, except as authorised in this Agreement.
No Project Participant may deal with, Commercialise, dispose of or encumber any interest which it might hold in Project IP, without the written consent of the Company.
The Company may at all times:
Commercialise the Project IP in accordance with clause 34;
use the Project IP for the Project and for research, training and education purposes of the Centre ; and
licence any Project Participant or any other person to use the Project IP for the research, training and education purposes of the Centre,
and must not use or license the Project IP for any other research, training and education purposes except with the written consent of all Project Participants.
A Project Participant wishing to use Project IP for any purpose not authorised under clause 31.1 must obtain a licence from the Company covering such use.
The grant of any such licence will be at the Company's absolute discretion and must include provisions governing ownership and Commercialisation of further Intellectual Property developed from such use.
The Company must decide whether any Project IP warrants pursuing patent protection, or other forms of Intellectual Property protection, and if it does, in which countries protection should be sought.
Unless otherwise agreed by the Company, the Company is to apply for, maintain and prosecute any form of Intellectual Property protection decided on under clause 32.
The Company has the exclusive right to Commercialise the Project IP at its discretion (including a right to sublicense), provided that the Company: 
Complies with all obligations under the Commonwealth Agreement regarding Commercialisation; 
complies with all obligations under this Agreement and any applicable Project Details regarding Commercialisation (including  the applicable Commercialisation Plan and any additional obligations); and
endeavours to achieve the Centre Objectives.
The Company may:
determine that Commercialisation of Project IP may be undertaken by itself, a Project Participant, a person not connected with the Centre, a related party of the Company (as defined in the Corporations Act) or any combination of them; and
grant licences to persons who will undertake Commercialisation of the Project IP.
Before the Company Commercialises any Project IP, it must comply with the following procedure:
the Company must provide to each Project Participant a Draft Commercialisation Plan with respect to the Project IP;
each Project Participant may, within 21 days after receipt of the Draft Commercialisation Plan, provide comments to the Company on the Draft Commercialisation Plan and the Company must discuss such comments with the respective Project Participants;
following the consultation process described in paragraphs (1) and (2), if it wishes to proceed with Commercialisation, the Company must provide to each Project Participant a Commercialisation Plan with respect to the Project IP;
the Company must obtain confirmation that each Project Participant has received each Commercialisation Plan and each Project Participant must promptly provide such confirmation;
each Project Participant may, within 21 days after receipt of the Commercialisation Plan, (the Notice Period) advise the Company in writing if it:
objects to the Commercialisation Plan but does not wish to withdraw from involvement in the Commercialisation; or 
objects to the Commercialisation Plan and wishes to withdraw from involvement in the Commercialisation;
if a Project Participant advises the Company within the Notice Period that it objects to the Commercialisation Plan and wishes to withdraw from involvement in the Commercialisation then:
the Parties that continue with Commercialisation in accordance with the Commercialisation Plan must severally in proportion to their Project Share indemnify the withdrawing Project Participant against any Loss that the withdrawing Project Participant may suffer, incur or sustain as a result of the Commercialisation of that Project IP; and
its rights to a share of Net Commercialisation Income in relation to that Project IP derived from Commercialisation in accordance with that Commercialisation Plan will be nil; and after completion of the process described in this clause, the Company may commence Commercialisation of the Project IP in accordance with the Commercialisation Plan, unless Project Participants holding more than 50% of the Project Shares have elected to withdraw under clause 37.1(6)

the Company must provide a progress report to the Project Participants every 6 months with respect to Commercialisation of the Project IP as against the Commercialisation Plan;
subject to clause 38.1(4) the Company may amend the Commercialisation Plan from time to time at its absolute discretion, provided that the Company must notify the Project Participants of any substantial amendments prior to the amendments being made;
within 30 days following notification of any substantial amendments to the Commercialisation Plan, a Project Participant may provide written notice to the Company that it objects to the amendments to the Commercialisation Plan and elects to withdraw from involvement in the Commercialisation, in which case:
the remaining Parties must severally in proportion to their Project Share indemnify the withdrawing Project Participant against any Loss that the withdrawing Project Participant may suffer, incur or sustain as a result of the further Commercialisation of that Project IP; and
its rights to a share of Net Commercialisation Income in relation to that Project IP derived from Commercialisation in accordance with that Commercialisation Plan will be nil.
After completion of the processes described in this clause, the Company may Commercialise the Project IP in accordance with the amended Commercialisation Plan, unless Project Participants holding more than 50% of the Project Shares have elected to withdraw under clause 38.1(3), in which case the Company must continue to Commercialise the Project IP in accordance with the unamended Commercialisation Plan.
The Company must keep written records of:
all Commercialisation Income it receives; and
all Commercialisation Expenses it incurs.
The Project Participants agree that the Company may use the Commercialisation Income with respect to Project IP to pay Commercialisation Expenses or reimburse the Company for previously incurred Commercialisation Expenses with respect to Project IP.
For the avoidance of doubt, the Project Participants acknowledge that the Company may in any Financial Year use Commercialisation Income received in that Financial Year to reimburse Commercialisation Expenses incurred in previous Financial Years.
By 31 August each year, the Company must remit to each Project Participant its share of Net Commercialisation Income with respect to the Project IP or Project IP for the previous Financial Year corresponding to Project Shares as at 1 July that year, subject to any adjustments pursuant to clauses 37 and 38.
Subject to clauses 42.2, and 42.3, each Party (the indemnifying Party) irrevocably and unconditionally indemnifies and agrees to keep indemnified each of the other Parties and their respective directors, officers, employees, agents and contractors (those indemnified) from and against any and all Loss (including legal fees on a full indemnity basis and net of any GST input tax credits to which those indemnified are entitled) howsoever arising that those indemnified may suffer, incur or sustain as a result of:
any breach of this Agreement (including material breach of any warranty given under this Agreement) by the indemnifying Party; or
any unlawful or negligent act or omission by the indemnifying Party or any of its directors, officers, employees, agents (other than the Company) or contractors arising in connection with the Project.
The indemnity given by an indemnifying Party pursuant to clause 42.1 shall be reduced proportionately to the extent that the Loss referred to in clause 42.1 was caused or contributed to by:
any breach of this Agreement (including material breach of any warranty given under this Agreement) by any of those indemnified; or
any unlawful or negligent act or omission by any of those indemnified or any of its directors, officers, employees, agents or contractors.
Nothing in clause 42.1 or any other provision of the Agreement will render a Party liable for any special, indirect or consequential loss or damages (including loss of income or profits) arising under or pursuant to this Agreement.
Each of those indemnified under clause 42.1 must promptly notify every indemnifying Party of any event or circumstance that may reasonably give rise to those indemnified relying upon the indemnity in clause 42.1.
This clause is a continuing obligation, separate and independent of each Party's other obligations and shall survive the expiration or, where relevant, earlier termination of this agreement and will continue to apply (both as a right and as an obligation) to any Party who is expelled or retires from the Project.
Each Party must effect and maintain adequate insurance to cover its own participation in the Project, including all Projects in which it participates.
Such insurance must include adequate run-off or other equivalent cover after this Agreement has expired or terminated with respect to the Project Participant.
A Project Participant may act as its own insurer provided that it receives the consent of the Company.
Consent is deemed to have been provided for any Project Participant that is a self-insuring government department or agency.
Each Project Participant must provide the Company with a certificate of currency of its relevant insurance policies as requested by the Company from time to time.
Any amendment or variation to a Project, including to Milestones or Deliverables, must be agreed in writing by the Company and all Project Participants.
Subject to the Commonwealth Agreement, a Project Participant may withdraw from the Project by giving six months notice to each other Project Participant.
If a Party withdraws from the Project the remaining Parties must meet for the purpose of agreeing on whether or not to continue the Project or a variation of the Project and the terms to which that continuation would be subject.
A Project Participant (the Defaulting Participant) may be expelled from the Project, provided Due Cause has arisen with respect to the Defaulting Participant and remains unremedied after 21 Business Days following notice to the Defaulting Participant 

If a Project Participant withdraws or is expelled from the Project, the Project Participant will from the date of effect of the withdrawal or expulsion:
cease to be a Party to this Agreement; 
lose any rights to a beneficial interest in the Project IP and a share of the Net Commercialisation Income with respect to such Project IP, and must sign any documents necessary to give effect to an assignment of those rights to the remaining Project Participants pro rata in proportion to their Project Shares;
subject to clause  47.2, relinquish all rights with respect to the Project and Project IP;
subject to the Commonwealth Agreement, be relieved of its obligations to make Project Contributions, to carry out, report on or manage the Project, or otherwise participate in the Project.
The withdrawal or expulsion of any Project Participant from the Project:
will not affect the enforceability of any obligations of that Project Participant or rights against that Project Participant accrued at that time; 
will not relieve that Project Participant of the obligations imposed upon it under this Agreement other than as specified in clause 47.1(4); 
will not affect any licences of Background IP granted for the Project, which will continue in accordance with clauses 19 and 21 for as long as the Background IP is required for the Project or Commercialisation, as contemplated by those clauses; and
subject to clause 45.2, will not relieve the remaining Parties of their obligations under this Agreement with respect to the Project and they shall continue to carry out the Project and perform the terms of this Agreement with respect to the Project.
The Project will terminate if the Participants Agreement is terminated for whatever reason.
The Company may terminate a Project upon 30 days written notice to the Project Participants if:
a Milestone is not achieved by the date by which it was required to be achieved and remains not achieved after 30 days following a notice from the Company to the Project Participants (or longer period of time specified by the Company in the notice); 
a Deliverable has not been provided by the date by which it was required to be provided and remains not provided after 30 days following a notice from the Company to the Project Participants (or longer period of time specified by the Company in the notice); or
in the opinion of the Company, the Project Objectives are unlikely to be achieved and remain unlikely to be achieved after 30 days following a notice from the Company to the Project Participants of such opinion containing reasons for that opinion,
provided that, if required by the Commonwealth Agreement, the Commonwealth has been informed of the proposed termination and does not object to the termination of the Project.
If the Project is terminated pursuant to clause 49.1(3) (regarding likelihood of achievement of Project Objectives), then the Company must reimburse each Project Participant for its reasonable expenses necessarily incurred as a result of the early termination (if any), up to a total amount for each Project Participant not to exceed the balance of the Project Funds that would have been paid to that Project Participant if there had been no early termination.
Unless the Parties otherwise agree, this Agreement will terminate upon expiration of the Term in accordance with clause 2.
Termination of this Agreement for any reason will be without prejudice to the continuing enforceability of any rights or obligations of the Parties accrued at the time of termination.
Each Project Participant must keep separate financial accounts which must record:
any Project Contributions it makes under clause 5;
any payments of Project Funds made to it by the Company under clause 7;
all expenditure incurred by the  Project Participant from Project Funds in carrying out the Project; and
any other expenditure associated with its carrying out the Project.
Each Project Participant must:
ensure its records and accounting books in relation to the Project are maintained in accordance with applicable Australian accounting standards and controls; and
either maintain such records and accounting books for a period 7 years after the termination of this Agreement or deliver them to the Company or other person as directed by the Company.
Each Project Participant must:
provide the Commonwealth and its agencies access to premises, records and staff as necessary; and
at all reasonable times allow the Company and its directors, officers, employees, agents and contractors to: 
access the part of the Project Participant's premises where the Project is being conducted and view the performance of the Project; and
access, inspect and copy material, records, accounts and other financial material relevant to the Project, including for the purposes of an audit; and
ensure that any sub-contract entered into by it for the purpose of this Agreement contains an equivalent clause granting the rights specified in this clause 52.3.
The Company must at all reasonable times allow a Project Participant and its directors, officers, employees, agents and contractors to access, inspect and copy material, records, accounts and other financial material relevant to the Project, including for the purposes of an audit.
Notwithstanding clause 52.3, a Project Participant granting access (Host) to the Company, or its directors, officers, employees, agents or contractors, may impose as a condition, that the Company directors, officers, employees, agents and contractors and execute an agreement, in a form acceptable to the Host, which:
sets out reasonable terms of the visit, including compliance with the Host's reasonable policies and guidelines;
contains reasonable obligations of confidentiality and non-disclosure that protect the interests of the Host;
reasonably addresses the liability of the Parties in the event of injury to the Company or its directors, officers, employees, agents or contractors while visiting the premises; and
contains obligations of compliance with relevant security and workplace health and safety legislation.
Project Participants who have enrolled students who are involved in the Project, or who have students under their supervision, acknowledge and agree that:
they must ensure that those students comply with clause 54 (Confidential Information) and clause 17 (Background IP); 
they must ensure that Project IP developed by the student is owned in accordance with clause 26 , provided that the student will own the copyright in his or her thesis; 
the only restrictions on publishing a student's thesis will be those reasonably necessary to protect Confidential Information, Background IP, or Project IP; 
the Company will not inhibit the right of a student to have his or her thesis examined, but an examiner may be required to sign a Confidentiality Agreement to protect Confidential Information; and
before a student becomes involved in the Project, the Company may require that the student and the institution in which the student is enrolled enter into a written agreement setting out the terms on which the student is involved in the Project, which shall be consistent with the principles in this clause.
The Parties acknowledge that the dissemination of knowledge is an important function of the Centre.
Nonetheless, the Parties shall not publish any information or material arising from the Project except in accordance with this clause 54.
The Company may publish information or material arising from the Project if it decides at its absolute discretion that the benefits of publication, having regards to the Centre Objectives, outweigh any potential loss of commercially valuable Intellectual Property rights or other potential disadvantage for the Company or the Centre.
At least 30 days prior to submission for publication, a Project Participant wishing to publish information or material arising from the Project (Requesting Party) must forward a request in writing to the Company, seeking permission to publish the information or material, and specifying in the request any Project IP or Confidential Information contained or referred to in the proposed publication.
The Company must notify the Requesting Party of its decision as to publication of the relevant information or materials within 30 days from receipt of a request.
The Company's permission may be subject to any conditions that the Company may reasonably impose, including a requirement that the publication include acknowledgments of:
the Centre's role in and contribution to the creation of the information or material in the publication;  and
the Requesting Party's affiliation with the Centre.
If the Company acting reasonably decides that the benefits of the Requesting Party's publication, having regards to the Centre Objectives, outweigh the potential loss of commercially valuable Intellectual Property rights or other potential disadvantage for the Company or the Centre, then the Company will notify the Requesting Party that permission to publish has been granted, and notify the other Parties to that effect.
If the Company acting reasonable decides that the benefits of publication, having regards to the Centre Objectives, do not outweigh the potential loss of commercially valuable Intellectual Property rights or other potential disadvantage for the Company or the Centre, then the Company will notify the Requesting Party to that effect, giving reasons for the decision, and either:
suggest alterations to the publication so that it does not disclose information affecting the commercially valuable Intellectual Property rights; or
if altering the publication is impractical, delay publication for a stipulated period not exceeding 90 days  from the date of the Company's notice under this clause, such time being to allow registration or protection of the relevant IP; or 
where the material contains information with potential for Commercialisation for which registration or protection is not possible or appropriate and for so long as the Company is actively seeking to Commercialise the Intellectual Property rights, delay publication for a further period as may be agreed between the Requesting Party and the Company not exceeding 12 months.
Unless authorised under clause 54 or this clause, each Party must not publish or disclose to any third party any information or material arising from carrying out the Project.
Except as otherwise provided in this clause, each Party must keep confidential and not disclose any Confidential Information of another Party.
Each Party may:
use Confidential Information of another Party only for the purposes of this Agreement; 
if the Party is the Company, use and disclose Confidential Information as required at its discretion for the purposes of this Agreement or otherwise for the purposes of the Centre Objectives; 
disclose Confidential Information to its:
employees;
directors and officers; and
legal, financial or other professional advisers 
who have a need to know for the purposes of this agreement (and only to the extent that each has a need to know), provided the disclosure is made subject to an obligation of confidentiality in accordance with clause 55.2(6);
use an disclose Confidential Information of another Party where authorised under Project Details;
disclose Confidential Information to the extent required by law; and
if the Party is the Commonwealth or a State or Commonwealth agency, disclose Confidential Information to its responsible Minister or in response to a request by a House or a Committee of the Parliament of the State or Territory or Commonwealth of Australia.
The obligations imposed on a Party by this clause will not apply to Confidential Information which:
prior to disclosure is in the public domain or subsequent to disclosure to the Party becomes part of the public domain other than as a result of an unauthorised act or failure to act by that Party;
is received by a Party from a third Party without any obligation to hold in confidence and which has not been obtained by that third Party directly or indirectly from any Party;
is independently developed by an employee or officer of the Party owing the obligation of confidentiality while having no knowledge of the Confidential Information; 
in the case of Party Confidential Information, the Party claiming confidentiality has agreed may be disclosed by that other Party; or
in the case of Centre Confidential Information, the Company has agreed may be disclosed by that other Party.
A Party is not obliged to maintain the confidentiality of its own Confidential Information.
The receiving Party has the onus of showing that any of the above exceptions apply.
A combination of information will not be taken to be in the public domain merely because it contains information in the public domain.
Each Party must use its reasonable efforts to ensure that:
its respective employees, directors, officers and advisers who participate in the Project or acquire access to Confidential Information, must comply with the obligation of confidentiality under this clause as though Parties to this Agreement; and
any of the above mentioned employees, directors, officers and advisers who cease to be employees, directors, officers or advisers must continue to be bound by such obligations of confidentiality.
The obligations of confidentiality imposed on a Party will survive termination of this Agreement or the Party's expulsion from the Project.
The Company is principally responsible for making public announcements about the Project and a Project Participant must not make any public announcement in relation to the Project or this Agreement without obtaining the Company's approval, except if required by law or a regulatory body (including a relevant stock exchange), in which case the Project Participant must, to the extent practicable, first consult with and take into account the reasonable requirements of the Company.
A Party must not use the name or logo of any other Party without the prior written consent of that Party.
For the purposes of this clause 58, Conflict means any matter, circumstance, interest, or activity affecting a Party (including the officers, employees, agents and subcontractors of the Party) which may or may appear to impair the ability of the Party (Affected Party) to carry out its part of the Project diligently and independently in accordance with this Agreement.
Each Party warrants to the other Parties that, to the best of its knowledge, at the date of signing this Agreement no Conflict exists or is likely to arise in the performance of the Project.
If, a Conflict arises, or appears likely to arise, the Affected Party agrees to:
notify the other Parties immediately;
subject to any obligations to maintain confidentiality, make full disclosure of all relevant information relating to the Conflict to the other Parties; and
take such steps as the Company may reasonably require to resolve or otherwise deal with the Conflict.
The Company will maintain a register of Conflicts disclosed under this Agreement.
Nothing in this clause prevents a Project Participant carrying out research independently of the Project, whether inside or outside the field of research covered by the Project.
If a dispute arises out of this Agreement (Dispute), a Party must comply with this clause 59 before starting arbitration or court proceedings (except proceedings for interlocutory relief).
A Party claiming a Dispute has arisen must give the other Parties to the Dispute notice setting out details of the Dispute.
During the 14 days after a notice is given under clause 59.2 (or longer period if the Parties to the Dispute agree in writing), each Party to the Dispute must use its reasonable efforts to resolve the Dispute and if necessary involve the Chief Executive Officers or other senior officers of the Parties directly in the negotiations.
If the Parties cannot resolve the Dispute within that period, they must either:
if the Dispute relates to a matter of valuation, refer the Dispute to a valuer in accordance with clause 59.5; or
refer the Dispute to a mediator if one of them requests.
If the Dispute relates to a matter of valuation the Dispute will be determined by a valuer agreed by the Parties involved in the Dispute or otherwise appointed by the President or acting President of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in Australia.
If the Parties to the Dispute cannot agree on a mediator within seven days after a request under clause 59.3, the chairman of LEADR or the chairman's nominee will appoint a mediator.
The role of a mediator is to assist in negotiating a resolution of the Dispute.
A mediator may not make a binding decision on a Party to the Dispute except if the Party agrees in writing.
Any information or documents disclosed by a Party under this clause 59:
must be kept confidential; and
may only be used to attempt to resolve the Dispute.
Each Party to a Dispute must pay its own costs of complying with this clause 59.
The Parties to the Dispute must equally pay the costs of any mediator.
A Party to a Dispute may terminate the dispute resolution process by giving notice to each other after it has complied with clauses 59.1 to 59.3.
Clauses 59.8 and 59.9 survive termination of the dispute resolution process.
Unless agreed otherwise by the Parties, on the termination of this Agreement the Parties and any former Parties shall continue to be bound by the obligations under clauses 26 (Project IP) 42 (indemnities), 43 (insurance) and 55 (confidentiality) (to the extent that these obligations are applicable to them) and any other obligations which by their nature are intended to survive this agreement.
Except where this Agreement expressly states otherwise, a Party may, in its discretion, give conditionally or unconditionally or withhold any approval or consent under this Agreement.
No Party may assign or attempt to assign or otherwise transfer or encumber any right or obligation arising out of this Agreement except:
in accordance with the Commonwealth Agreement; and
with the written consent of the other Parties.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, the Parties acknowledge that the obligations of each Project Participant under this Agreement are limited to using the resources of any Specified Division of that Project Participant.
The Parties agree that:
the rights, duties, obligations and liabilities of the Parties in relation to the Project shall in every case, be several and not joint or joint and several;
nothing contained in this Agreement constitutes any of them as agent, partner or trustee of any other of them, or creates any agency, partnership or trust for any purpose whatsoever; and
except as otherwise specifically provided in this Agreement a Party does not have any authority or power to act for, or to create or assume any responsibility or obligation on behalf of, any other Party.
A Party shall not sub-contract the performance of a substantial part of the Project of the Centre without the prior approval of the Company.
Each Party must pay its own costs of negotiating, preparing and executing this Agreement.
The continuing obligations described in clause 63 are independent and survive termination of this Agreement.
Any other term by its nature intended to survive termination of this Agreement survives termination of this Agreement.
This Agreement may be executed in counterparts.
All executed counterparts constitute one document.
The rights and obligations of the Parties under this Agreement do not merge on completion of any transaction contemplated by this Agreement.
Each Party must do, at its own expense, everything reasonably necessary (including executing documents) to give full effect to this Agreement and any transaction contemplated by it.
A term or part of a term of this Agreement that is illegal or unenforceable may be severed from this Agreement and the remaining terms or parts of the terms of this Agreement continue in force.
A Party does not waive a right, power or remedy if it fails to exercise or delays in exercising the right, power or remedy.
A single or partial exercise of a right, power or remedy does not prevent another or further exercise of that or another right, power or remedy.
A waiver of a right, power or remedy must be in writing and signed by the Party giving the waiver.

During the term of this Agreement the Contractor shall have the licence and right to supply all refreshments and other commodities agreed between the parties from the Canteen.
The licence and right shall continue for the term set out in Item 4 of the Schedule between the hours set out in Item 5 of the Schedule and on the days set out in Item 6 of the Schedule or at such other times as may be agreed between the parties.
The School may cancel this Licence any time by giving the Contractor 28 day's notice in writing.
The Contractor and its employees and agents will be entitled to access to the Canteen  at all reasonable times, before, during and after every time when the Canteen is required to be opened under sub-clause 3, for the purpose of operating the Canteen and deliveries to the Canteen PROVIDED THAT the Contractor and its agents and employees at all times enter and leave the Canteen by such route as instructed by the Principal and does not remain or permit its agents or employees to remain within the Premises after the time in Item 7 of the Schedule.
The Contractor will promptly comply with all reasonable and lawful instructions given by or on behalf of the Principal.
The Contractor will pay to the School a weekly licence fee of the amount set out in Item 8 of the Schedule.
Such Licence Fee shall be payable weekly in advance, the first payment to be made on the date of commencement of this Agreement in such manner as the Principal may direct from time to time.
No Licence Fee shall be payable for any week during which the Contractor does not operate the Canteen by reason of the fact that the School is closed to pupils.
The School will be entitled to review the licence fee on or after the date(s) in Item 9 of the Schedule.
The Principal will advise the Contractor in writing of the new licence fee.
PROVIDED THAT if the Contractor is not willing to pay the new licence fee it will be entitled to terminate the licence upon 4 weeks notice in writing to the Principal.
The Contractor will use the Canteen only for the purpose of selling refreshments and other commodities agreed between the parties from time to time within the School.
All items to be sold by the Contractor from the Canteen shall be approved by the Principal.
The Contractor will not permit any of the Equipment to be removed from the Canteen other than for necessary repairs.
The Contractor will replace, or at the Principal's option, pay for, any item of Equipment which is lost, damaged or destroyed and all articles supplied by the Contractor by way of replacement shall immediately become the property of the School and fall within the definition of Equipmentherein.
Throughout the continuance of this Agreement the Contractor shall conform at its own cost and expense with all Acts of both Federal and State Parliaments and all Regulations, Bylaws, Ordinances or Orders made thereunder and the lawful requirements of any Public, Municipal or other authority so far as the same may affect or apply to the Contractor or the works being carried out by the Contractor, and the Contractor shall indemnify the Principal from and against all actions, costs, charges, claims and demands in respect thereof.
The laundering of any uniforms or overalls worn by the Contractor shall be the responsibility of the Contractor.
If any employee of the Contractor is guilty of any misconduct on the Canteen or Premises or in the vicinity of the Premises the Principal may immediately require the Contractor to cease to employ such employee in the Canteen and may forbid any such employee to enter the Canteen or Premises.
In such event the Principal will have the right to cause him or her to be removed from the Canteen or Premises PROVIDED ALWAYS that neither the School or the Principal shall be in any way liable in respect of any claim made by any such employee for wages or damages and the Contractor shall indemnify the School and the Principal against every such claim.
The Contractor shall effect Public Liability Insurance with a company approved by the Principal for an amount not less than $10 million.
The Contractor will provide the Principal no later than at the time of entry into this agreement a Certificate of Currency of such insurance and shall provide to the Principal each year a valid Certificate of Currency.
Such policy shall note the Principal as an interested party.
The Contractor shall also effect other insurances required to be effected by it by law.
Without limiting the generality hereof, the Contractor shall arrange all necessary insurance with respect to its employees under the provisions of any relevant workers compensation legislation and shall if required by the Principal produce evidence of such insurance from time to time.
The Contractor shall be responsible for and shall indemnify the Principal against liability for all loss, damage or injury to persons or property caused by the Contractor, or its employees or agents, and the amount of all claims, damages, costs and expenses which may be paid, suffered or incurred by the Principal in respect of any such loss, damage or injury shall be made good at the Contractor's expense and may be deducted from any monies due or becoming due to the Contractor.
Nothing contained herein shall constitute the relationship of partnership or employer and employee between the parties hereto.
The Contractor will not hold itself out as conducting its business under the authority of or with the supervision of the Principal and shall do nothing to suggest that it is in any way acting in conjunction with the Principal.
This Agreement constitutes the whole agreement between the parties, can be modified only in writing and shall be subject to and interpreted in accordance with the laws of New South Wales.
Upon the termination or expiration of this Agreement the Contractor shall have the right to remove any items installed in the Canteen by the Contractor other than items that have been provided by the Contractor to replace any of the Equipment PROVIDED that in the course of such removal the Contractor shall not cause or allow any damage or injury to the Canteen or to the Premises and shall immediately make good and repair all damage and injury caused by or connected with such removal.
The fee to be paid by the Contractor under this Agreement includes the Goods and Services Tax (currently 10%).
The Trustees (school) agree to provide the Contractor with a tax invoice showing the amount of Goods and Services Tax payable.
The Contractor acknowledges the Privacy Notice referred to in Item 11 of the Schedule.
The Contractor acknowledges receipt of Child Protection material from the Principal including CEO Sydney Child Protection Guidelines Section 6(g) and Section 9.10 and agrees to provide any information requested by the Principal and to comply with all legislation and guidelines relating to Child Protection.
In applying to provide your services you will be providing the school with personal information.
We can be contacted via the information contained in the header of this document.
If you provide us with personal information, for example your name and address or information contained on your resume/tender/application, we will collect the information in order to assess your application.
We may also make notes and prepare a confidential report in respect of your application.
You agree that we may store this information for an indefinite period.
Access to this information may be available to you if you ask the School for it.
We will not usually disclose this information to a third party without your consent.
We are required to collect information and undertake certain checks under NSW Child Protection law if your work will involve direct, unsupervised contact with children in the School.
If you provide us with the personal information of others, we encourage you to inform them that you are disclosing that information to the School and why, that they can access that information if they wish and that the school does not usually disclose the information to third parties.


The consultant shall convey all or any considerations during the course of this agreement as the executor of any pre-considerations for and on behalf of the supplier/receiver to this agreement 

If a right of assignment is executed under the terms of this agreement, the supplier/receiver may extinguish the pre-emptive agreement to merge a HGP licensing Agreement but withstanding all the rights in continued partnership in any Joint Venture agreement or other as a result of this agreement;(supplier/receiver and consultant).
The supplier may, with discretion issue a License Agreement upon execution of its right of assignment with respect to the Corporation or Identity.
Under the joint international terms of UMACO and Haber (in partnership) the consultant shall assist to use HGP in joint installations and processing operations and promote and acquire the relationships in joint supplier corporation or identity (supplier and receiver) agreement or otherwise to perform an enduring interests between parties in any procurement of Joint operations.
After, the assessment of ore amenability via analytical co-operations and other, processing, goods and services, engineering processes (existing or altered)and flow investigations combined in feasibility has been qualified and quantified Haber may upon joint consensus (supplier and receiver)exercise a right of assignment after which the corporation or identity shall provide better and equitable understanding to economic arrangements

After the supplier and corporate/identity attains a level of satisfaction to advance under this consideration, "UHG-PE" the subject of this agreement; to a legitimate HABER INC "HGP" LICENSING AGREEMENT it shall recognize the process requires discrete and confidential understanding between all and sundry parties.
The corporation /identity shall emplace full confidentiality of the HGP process technology (accidentally acquired or otherwise) and place maintenance of security to Joint Project and process knowledge up to and beyond the enduring period/duration in perpetuity.
Further, (but not withstanding cessation of the UHG-PE) , the parties consolidate interests or consensus during this period, The Intent will:
At any time seceding or during this agreement, be expected to engage a license Agreement meant to secure the incorporating of all parties within or attached to this agreement including the authorized representative distributor or consultant.
The purpose will be to consolidate with all parties using HGP.
At all times whilst in the duration of this agreement and any or any other agreement/s either attached to or otherwise in all entirety the consultant endures with all agreements, being entitled under the authorized consultant and services agreements with Haber Inc USA including but not limited to substantive agreements in good faith the rights of the authorized consultant 
The consultant as distributor, shall retain with such agreements the subject of this agreement all such rights and privileges as aspired to therein with any agreements entered into with the supplier pertaining this and the entire agreement/s.
The consultant shall retain under his/her rights not limited to but including such right of payment under Royalty or any other right of success to a licensing agreement that may be inferred or incurred as a result of the execution of the right of Assignment
The corporation shall obligate to sustain and maintain the right of the distributor to benefits contained in the agreements and acknowledges the consultants right of benefits by the signing and witnessing of this agreement contained or carried forward to any other agreement.
The expected time frames of the assessments are determined by vagaries within transport, customs, analytical, duties, bank/s, and any other unknown article within associations that may determine outcomes before assignment.
For the purpose of this agreement and to maintain in substance the intent of this agreement it is hereby declared:
The corporation shall complete and discharge it's duties with respect to all and sundry including but not limited to responsibilities to the foresaid
The consultant shall maintain interests and considerations of this and intending agreements and duties that may from time to time be required to complete obligations to this agreement.
The corporation/identity shall execute any or all payment as readily and speedily as can be performed to execute and maintain this agreement with the consultant as they fall due.
This agreement is subject of but not binding to any necessary unwritten considerations with respect to services as performed by others not employed by the consultants to this agreement eg delays by transport, other analytical or circumstances beyond the control of the consultant, force majeur

In order for the intention of this agreement to endure it shall be deemed that the Corporation or Identity has agreed to all appendices and correspondence previously between the consultant and the supplier if any and or otherwise considered attached to this agreement.
That the corporation shall pay for transport costs discharged from the designated port of discharge to the destination from Australia to expedite the discharge of duties within this agreement.
Should the transportation of the goods and services be subject to international insurance materials the cost shall be paid by the corporation 
NOW THEREFORE in consideration of the mutual covenants and agreements contained herein and for good and valuable consideration (the receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged by each of the parties) the parties hereto covenant and agree each with the others as follows: or Identity

DUTIES OF THE CONSULTANT (Distributor)AND/OR AUTHORISED REPRESENTATIVE
It will be clear that as a result of consummating this agreement between the Corporation or identity and the consultant to this agreement that the consultant will perform all of his duties and discharge his obligation as qualified for the purpose of the authorised consultant to instruct on behalf of the consulting parties to this agreement.
The consultant shall advise 3rd party suppliers of materials the subject of this agreement of the delivery responsibilities to complete arrangements within general time periods (notwithstanding unscheduled circumstances and or payment/s of any kind beyond the control of any party to this agreement)
For security the corporation shall approve the dispatch of reports general corporate information, samples, assays and payments for goods and services and therefore authorises, under the terms of this agreement if necessary, to satisfy all dealings and discharge their duties to the benefit of the payments deposited to the consultants account for the discharge of his duties.
Payment shall be by approved electronic transfer or satisfied means to the Consultant as determined between parties from time to time.
Subject to the terms and conditions hereof, the Corporation or Identity hereby retains the Consultant or authorised representative as in the intent to this agreement and the Consultant hereby accepts and agrees to such retainer as may be required from time to time set forth in the various clauses previously described.
The Consultant or authorised representative shall render services within but not necessarily limited to Australia with respect to the strategic Haber Inc USA certified proprietary gold processing lixiviate, owned by the supplier and with regard to pre-emptive right under assignment to the corporation or identity through the consultants management, including not limited to from time to time planning, scheduling, or any other with respect to the Corporation's or Identities, Precious Metals processing and planning and any other diverse interests to the Corporation or Identity, together with such other services as may, from time to time, be mutually agreed to by the Consultant and the Corporation or Identity during the term of this Agreement (the "Services").
The Consultant or authorised representative agrees that he shall, during the continuance of this Agreement, provide the Services conjointly with the supplier and receiver and or personally in that respect apply his reasonable time and attention to the business of the Corporation or Identity by any means necessary to execute his duties and to any subsidiary of the Corporation or Identity, for the performance of the Services faithfully, diligently, to the best of his abilities and in the best interests of the Corporation or Identity within and pertaining to the terms hereto.
The time of service to be provided hereunder by the Consultant shall be as agreed to from time to time by the Corporation or Identity and the Consultant or authorised representative.
The consultant or authorised representative may retain other professional expertise in care to the execution of his duties as may be the case from time to time in accordance with general practitioners best discretion as determined in the best interests of the corporation or Identity

The Corporation or Identity acknowledges that the Consultant or authorised representative currently serves and may, from time to time, serve as a director or officer of other entities with respect to duties under this Agreement.
The appointment shall commence with effect from, Date            May, 2007 (the "Effective Date")continue for a period of one (1) year from the Effective Date unless earlier terminated in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement (the "Initial Term") subject to a equal right to extinguish.
If agreed by the parties, the appointment will continue, starting______________, 2007 on a one (6)month quarterly basis until terminated prior to the end of such year in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement unless mutually agreed.
The Corporation or Identity, not withstanding in Initial agreement to party/party compromise for predominated value services during establishment periods of business operations, agrees to pay any associated fee/s for Services to the Consultant or authorised representative at the rate of as per the schedule; or fee miscellaneous and receipted transactions, payable to the Consultant or authorised representative generally(30) days following the submission by the Consultant or authorised representative.
Records provided by monthly invoices and statements for Services rendered by the Consultant 

The corporation or Identity or its principals shall attend to duty of care to exercise maintenance of a central payment for any out of pocket expenses to compensate the consultant for transitional expenses in line with his or her duties to the corporation or principal/pals thereof notwithstanding subjects to in anticipation to 3.3 herewith and as indicated by the attachments in the appendix herewith.
The Corporation or Identity agrees to pay to the Consultant or authorised representative if applicable, at the same times and in the same manner as provided for in the Excise Tax Act all Goods and Services Tax ("GST") payable in respect of the Services provided hereunder, including without limitation, such taxes calculated on or in respect of amounts payable by the Corporation or Identity under this Agreement and Australian Law.
It is anticipated that the majority of the consulting will be performed inside of the Australian territorial waters but not withstanding international waters and agreements extended for the acquisitions if any under by Australian Law.
It is understood and agreed that the Consultant or authorised representative may incur reasonable expenses in connection with his duties under this Agreement.
The Corporation or Identity will reimburse the Consultant for any such expenses, including travel freight expenses, provided that the Consultant provides to the Corporation or Identity an itemized written account and receipts acceptable to the Corporation within sixty days after they have been incurred as the case may be, with that of the Corporation or Identity.
The parties hereto understand and agree that any and all deductions, assessments and remittances required as a result of the compensation payable to the Consultant or authorised representative pursuant to this Consulting Agreement shall be and remain the sole responsibility of the Consultant or authorised representative.
Notwithstanding other provisions such powers to execute a properly and orderly co-operation including any strategy outside any standard conventional means of securing HGP non financial Investment to a project shall fall under the rules of the executor

It shall be the duty of the consultant to identify and execute such provisions in accordance with requirements and advise likewise to the corporation or Identity in accordance with the duties set forth in 1, herewith.
Upon the successful completion of the assessments and feasibility the consultant shall notify the corporation/identity and the supplier Mutatis mutandis of such intents as related to the execution to a right of assignment and commitments, thereof

Upon execution of assignment the consultant shall define material requirements including but not limited to the project as may be defined by notifying the supplier and corporation/identity of the request between parties to satisfy initiating requirements 

Upon the consultants successful completion and execution of methods and including but not sole related to by whole, the corporation or Identity may notify the corporation/identity
The consideration shall also pertain via intentions to variation for intended commercial use as per the Schedule that may vary in accordance to the principals in Schedule A.
Supply, the corporation shall acknowledge that the supplier may not enter into final arrangements under unqualified conditions


The Corporation shall make good the committed supply and continued supply of samples as may result of the activities promoting and contained by assessment and demand as agreed or otherwise expected.
The corporation or identity shall also do all that is expected and necessary to execute the completion of supply and not cause financial or undue harm of commercial arrangements for the benefit of the consultant and his executive and discharge of duties to the corporation or identity and the consultants partners.
Other product that may enter the terms or considered a product under the notion of product due to the consummation of this agreement may be considered a product of supply for the purpose of this agreement not excluding:
Services   
Resources 
Assay
Delivery
Pick up
Administration and Documentation
Other duties that require the discharge of product

The Consultant or authorised representative shall obtain the responsibility of ensuring (notwithstanding rejection on qualified grounds) all necessary licenses and permits by the supplier/s and for complying with any applicable federal, state, provincial and municipal laws, codes and regulations in connection with the provision of the Services hereunder and the Consultant or authorised representative shall when requested or express an intention, provide the Corporation or Identity with adequate evidence of his compliance with this Section 4.
The Consultant or authorised representative shall comply, while on the premises used by the Corporation or Identity, and the Corporation or Identity's authorised representative shall comply, while on the premises used by the consultant with all the rules and regulations of the Corporation or Identity and that of the consultant from time to time in force which are brought to his notice or of which he could reasonably be aware.
The Consultant or authorised representative acknowledges that as the result of entering into this Agreement he will be a "person in a special relationships, as that expression is defined in the securities laws of various provinces/states of Australia, with the Corporation or Identity, and that as such he may receive information concerning material changes in or material facts concerning the business and affairs of the Corporation or Identity that has not been generally disclosed, and it covenants and agrees that he may purchase but not sell any securities of the Corporation or Identity until such information has been generally disclosed

The Corporation or authorised representative acknowledges that as the result of entering into this Agreement he will be a "person in a special relationships, as that expression is defined in the securities laws of various provinces/states of Australia, with the Consultant or authorised representative and that such securities handled by the consultant shall benefit the corporation or identity and that the corporation or identity shall do all in their power to disclose all and provide essential assistance to movement and transport by completion of all that is necessary to execute the completion of the consultants obligation form their geographic location as defined herewith notwithstanding as agreed in 3.6.7 herewith..
It is understood and acknowledged by the parties that in consummation by signing and witness of this the agreement the Consultant or authorised representative is, being retained by the Corporation or Identity for international and local independent Haber HGP Consultant requirements and authorised representative shall have authority to enter into any dialogue productive or otherwise toward a agreement on behalf of the Corporation or Identity, without the prior written consent of the Principal/s of the corporate/identity, as the case may be, for the benefit of the commercial gain for the corporation or identity.
The Consultant or authorised representative acknowledges that he will, in providing the Services, acquire information about certain matters  which are confidential to the Corporation or Identity, and which information is the exclusive property of the Corporation or Identity, not withstanding the right of privileged used by the consultant or it's authorised representative including, without limitation, the following:
Assay results, feasibility reports, geological data and/or;
Exploration and/or development plans;
Financing arrangements and/or joint venture agreements; and
legal securities as defined by Australian Law
Other confidential information concerning the business operations or  financing of the Corporation or Identity.
The Corporation or Identity recognises that the consultant or authorised representative may contribute at their own costs from time to time for the benefit of the projects and corporations or identity success and in doing so retains the right of exclusivity to confidential and matters that are effected by the consultants or authorised representative.
The corporation or Identity realises that in default by the former, all information and files pertaining to the project will be retained by the consultant until all remuneration is received to the satisfaction of the consultant or authorised representative.
The Consultant or authorised representative acknowledges the information as referred to in paragraph 6.1 and may be used at the discretion of the consultant or authorised representative.
Accordingly the Consultant undertakes not to disclose same to any third party not withstanding his discretionary power either during the term of the Consultant's retainer except as may be necessary in the proper discharge of his retainer under this Agreement, or after the term of his retainer, however caused, except with the written condition of the Principal of the corporation or Identity.
The Consultant also agrees that the unauthorized disclosure of any such information outside discretionary power of 6.2 herewith during the life of this Agreement shall constitute a failure to comply with this Agreement for the purposes of Section 7 of this Agreement.
The Consultant or authorised representative acknowledges that in addition to any and all rights of the Corporation or Identity, the Corporation or Identity shall be entitled to terminate by written relief to rectify or terminate without party to party restitution between parties.
In order to protect the Corporation's rights and property as set out in Sections 6.1 and 6.2 of this Section if the case may be.
The Consultant or authorised representative understands and agrees that the Corporation or Identity has a material interest in preserving the relationship it has developed with its joint venture partners if any against impairment by competitive activities of a former employee.
Accordingly, the Consultant or authorised representative agrees that the restrictions and covenants contained in this Section 6 and the Consultant's agreement to them by his execution of this Agreement, are of the essence to this Agreement and constitute a material inducement to the Corporation or Identity to enter into this Agreement and to Jointly Venture and contract the Consultant or authorised representative, and that the Corporation or Identity would not enter into this Agreement absent such an inducement.
Furthermore, the existence of any claim or cause of action by the Consultant or authorised representative against the Corporation whether predicated on this Agreement or otherwise, shall not constitute a defence to the enforcement by the Corporation or Identity of the covenants or restrictions provided in this Section 6, provided, however, that if any provision shall be held to be illegal, invalid or unenforceable in any jurisdiction, the decision shall not affect any other covenant or provision of this Agreement or the application of any other covenant or provision.
The Corporation or Identity or the Consultant or authorised representative may terminate this Agreement provided that the corporation terminates within 30 days of the signing of this agreement and that the corporation has material reason at any time in the event of the failure of the other party to comply with any of the material provisions hereunder upon such other party being notified in writing by the party alleging such failure and failing to remedy such failure within thirty (30) days of receiving such notice in which case the Consultant or authorised representative shall be paid fees for Services outstanding up to the end of such thirty (30) days.
The Consultant or authorised representative may, at any time, terminate this Agreement upon written notice to the Corporation or Identity in which case the Consultant shall be paid fees for Services up to the end of stated date

The Corporation or Identity may terminate after complying in this Agreement immediately upon paying to the Consultant or authorised representative payment representing aggregate fees for Service payable for the balance of the Initial Term or the renewal term, as the case may be, of this Agreement, plus GST or similar taxes related thereto as applicable.
This Agreement may be terminated upon the inability to perform excised by injury of the Consultant or authorised representative from accidental and non-prejudicial inactivity notwithstanding the consultants substantive rights to pre authorised substitute of the consultant or authorised representative prior to such injury.
Notwithstanding any termination of this Agreement for any reason whatsoever and with or without cause, the provisions of Sections 4.3, 6, 8 and 9 any other provisions of this Agreement necessary to give efficacy thereto shall continue in full force and effect following any such termination.
The Consultant or authorised representative acknowledges that all items not created by the consultants or authorised representative other than the product itself or use of any and every nature or kind provided to the Consultant pursuant to the Consultant's retainer under this Agreement, or furnished by the Corporation or Identity to the Consultant or authorised representative including, without limitation, all books, records, reports, files, diskettes, manuals, literature, confidential information or other materials not subject of the mandate of metals, and metals trading shall remain and be considered the exclusive property of the Corporation or Identity at all times and shall be surrendered to the Corporation or Identity, in good condition, at the request of the Corporation or Identity, or in the absence of a request, on the termination of the Consultant's retainer with the Corporation or Identity if so be.
Any notice, waiver, direction or other instrument or communication if delivered shall be deemed to have been validly and effectively given on the date on which it was delivered and, if sent by facsimile transmission, shall be deemed to have been validly and effectively given on the next Business Day following the day on which it was sent; provided that, if the day of delivery is not a Business Day, such notice, waiver, direction or other instrument or communication shall be deemed to have been given and received on the next Business Day following such date.
For the purposes of this Agreement "Business Day" means any day other than a day which is a Saturday, a Sunday or a statutory holiday in local regional central Queensland, Australia .
The Corporation or Identity and the Consultant may change its address for notices or service from time to time by notice given in accordance with the foregoing.
Sections and Headings.
The division of this Agreement into Articles and Sections and the insertion of headings are for the convenience of reference only and shall not affect the construction or interpretation of this Agreement.
The terms "this Agreement", "hereof", "hereunder" and similar expressions refer to this Agreement and not to any particular Article, Section or other portion hereof and include any agreement or instrument supplemental or ancillary hereto.
Unless something in the subject matter or context is inconsistent therewith, references herein to sections and paragraphs are to sections and paragraphs ofthis Agreement.
Number.
In this Agreement words importing the singular number only shall include the plural and vice versa and words importing the masculine gender shall include the feminine and neuter genders and vice versa and words importing persons shall include individuals, partnerships, associations, trusts, unincorporated organizations and Corporations and vice versa.
Entire Agreement.
This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement between the parties with respect to the retainer of the Consultant from and after the  Effective Date and any and all previous agreements, written or oral, express or implied, between the parties or on their behalf, relating to any employment or retainer of the Consultant by the Corporation or Identity are terminated and cancelled and each of the parties releases and forever discharges the other of and from all manner of actions, causes of action, claims and demands whatsoever, under or in respect of any such agreement.
The rights and remedies of the parties under this Agreement are cumulative and in addition to and not in substitution for any rights or remedies provided by law.
Any single or partial exercise by any party hereto of any right or remedy for default or breach of any term, covenant or condition of this Agreement does not waive, alter, affect or prejudice any other right or remedy to which such party may be lawfully entitled for the same default or breach.
The failure of a party in any one or more instances to insist upon strict performance of any of the terms of this Agreement or to exercise any right or privilege arising under it shall not preclude it from requiring by reasonable notice that any other party duly perform its obligations or preclude it from exercising such a right or privilege under reasonable circumstances, nor shall waiver in any one instance of a breach be construed as an amendment of this Agreement or waiver of any later breach.
The rights which accrue to the Corporation or Identity under this Agreement shall pass to its successors or assigns but not to the determent of the consultant or the authorised representative as per the spirit of the contract in good faith of all relevant parties to the agreement.
The Consultant may reserve the rights under this Agreement to assign or transfer their interest to any 3rd party under a mutual beneficial benefit for all parties subject to this agreement.
The Consultant shall from time to time at the request of the Corporation or Identity in writing duly signed and witnessed and without further consideration but under reciprocal co-operation from the corporation or Identity , execute and deliver all such other additional assignments, transfers, instruments, notices, releases and other documents and shall do all such other acts and things as may be necessary or desirable to assure more fully the effect of the retainer for the Services contemplated hereby.
Time shall be of the essence of this Agreement.
This Agreement may be amended or varied only by agreement in writing signed by each of the parties.
Unless the context otherwise so requires, a reference to this Agreement shall include a reference to this Agreement as amended or varied from time to time.
If any provision of this Agreement is determined to be invalid or unenforceable in whole or in part, such invalidity or unenforceability shall attach only to such provision or part thereof and the remaining part of such provision and all other provisions hereof shall continue in full force and effect.
This Agreement shall be governed by and interpreted in accordance with the laws from time to time in force in the State of Queensland and the laws of Australia applicable herein, and each of the parties hereby attorns to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of the courts of Queensland.
This Agreement shall enure to the benefit of and be binding upon the parties hereto and their respective successors and permitted assigns.
This Agreement may be executed in as many counterparts as are necessary and shall be binding on each party when each party hereto has signed and delivered one such counterpart.
When a counterpart of this Agreement has been executed by each party, all counterparts together shall constitute one agreement.
The Consultant hereby acknowledges receipt of a copy of this Agreement duly signed by the Corporation.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF this Agreement has been duly executed by the respective
parties hereto effective as of the date first above written.


There shall be constituted a regional library corporation for the purposes of section
196 of the Act by the name of West Gippsland Regional Library Corporation to -
provide, subject to any service level agreements or any conditions attached to any State government library subsidies and grants to the Regional Library or the Councils, a quality, customer-focused regional library service for Council's municipal districts as determined by the Board;
make Local Laws relating to the Regional Library;
perform other functions which are conferred on the Regional Library under this
Agreement or Act, including defining overall policy objectives, developing strategic policy and a financial strategy, approving a Library Plan, developing an annual Budget; and preparing an Annual report, and 
to do all things necessary or expedient in accordance with this Agreement and 
the Act for the carrying out of its functions.
The Board of the Regional Library shall consist of the following members-

One councillor appointed by each Council

One member of Council staff appointed by each Council;

A Council may appoint a councillor to act as deputy in place of its appointed councilor member.
A Council may appoint a member of council staff to act as deputy in place of its appointed staff member.
A member and deputy shall hold office until the term of his/her appointment
expires, until removed or the person resigns or ceases to be a councillor or member of council staff, whichever occurs first.
A Council may remove from office its appointed member or deputy.
A Council must fill a vacancy in its members as soon as possible and notify the 
board in writing of the new member.
The office of a member automatically becomes vacant if he/she is absent for
three consecutive meetings without leave of the Board.
The Board shall hold an ordinary meeting at least once every three months.
If a special meeting is called, it must be called by the Chief Executive Officer on
the request of the Chairperson or any three members of the Board.
The Board shall elect a member to be the Chairperson of the Board and they shall hold office for twelve months, unless they go out of office earlier in accordance with clause 3.4 of this Agreement.
The Chairperson shall preside at a meeting of the Board.
In the absence of the Chairperson from a Board meeting, the remaining members of the Board may elect one of their number to preside at that meeting.
Notice of motion to recommend amendment of this Agreement and notice of 
motion for the adoption or amendment of Local Laws by the Board shall be given in writing to Councils at least one month before the meeting of the Board at which a motion is to be discussed.
Each Council agrees to indemnify the Regional Library in respect of any liability
incurred as a consequence of the operation of section 76 of the Act in relation to each of its appointed members.
The Board shall appoint a Chief Executive Officer of the Regional Library.
In addition to any responsibilities imposed on a Chief Executive Officer under
the Act, the Chief Executive Officer shall be responsible to the Board for the finances and administration of the Regional Library including the implementation of the Library Plan, the Financial strategy, preparation of the Annual Budget and Annual Report, delivery of the service and administrative support for the Board and any other duties specified.
Each Council agrees to the Regional Library using the assets set out in the 
Statement of Council Assets in Schedule 1.
The Chief Executive Officer shall maintain a register of the assets provided
for the use of the Regional Library by Councils.
This register must indicate which Council owns each asset.
The Chief Executive Officer shall maintain a register of the assets owned by the
Regional Library.
A Council must, unless otherwise agreed by Councils, give twelve months 
notice in writing to the Chief Executive Officer of its intention to withdraw assets from the use of the Regional Library.
The Regional Library shall, unless otherwise agreed by Councils, be 
responsible for the maintenance, repair, replacement and operating costs of assets owned by the Regional Library.
Each Council shall, unless otherwise agreed by Councils, be responsible for
the maintenance, repair, replacement and operating costs of assets owned by it but provided for the use of the Regional Library.
The Regional Library shall, unless otherwise agreed by Councils and subject to

The Chief Executive Officer shall by 30 June each year provide each Council 
with a copy of the Regional Library's Library Plan prepared in accordance with section 197D of the Act.
The Chief Executive Officer shall by 30 June each year prepare and provide
each Council with a proposed Strategic Resource Plan for the financial year commencing 1 July.
The Strategic Resource Plan shall include a program for the delivery of services
by the Regional Library which identifies the nature and extent of proposed services and an estimate of the costs of the provision of those services.
The Regional Library must adopt a Library Plan and a Strategic Resource Plan
by the date specified in the Act.
The Chief Executive Officer shall by June 1 each year provide each Council
with a copy of the Regional Library's proposed annual Budget prepared in accordance with section 127 of the Act.
The proposed annual Budget shall include -

the amount of funds currently held by the Regional Library

the amount of each Council's proposed financial contribution to the 
Regional Library for the financial year commencing 1 July; and

the amount of funds to be received from any other source by the 
Regional Library in the financial year commencing 1 July.
The amount to be contributed to the Regional Library by each Council during
each financial year shall be the sum of -

the amount specified in the Regional Library's adopted annual Budget;

all State Government library subsidies and grants received by the 
Council for library services; and

funds received by the Council from any other source for library services.
The Council must agree on a funding formula for the purpose of making annual 
financial contributions to the Regional Library under Clause 9.1 (a).
Each Council's financial contribution to the Regional Library shall be paid in 
quarterly installments on the first day of July, October, January and April each year.
The first installment shall be the same amount paid by the Council in the 
previous quarter and the second installment shall include any adjustment to ensure the two installments together equal half the amount paid by that Council for that financial year.
Al other Council contributions under clause 9.1 shall be paid within one month
of receipt of the monies by the Council.
In addition to the contributions payable under this clause, a Council shall be 
responsible for the Regional Library's costs in providing any additional service
or resources requested by the Council and such costs are to be paid within 30 days of the Council receiving an invoice from the Regional Library.
Interest shall be paid on any amount payable under clause 9 which is not received by the Chief Executive Officer within 14 days of the due date at the rate fixed by the Governor in Council for the purposes of section 172 of the Act and calculated monthly from the date the amount became due until it is received by the Chief Executive Officer.
The Chief Executive Officer shall, within three months of the end of each 
financial year, provide each Council with a copy of the Regional Library's Annual report prepared in accordance with section 131 of the Act.
The books of accounts and all other financial records of the Regional Library 
shall be available for inspection at all reasonable times by any councillor, or, person authorised by a Council, or, by any person authorised by the Secretary of the Department responsible for administering State Government library subsidies and grants from which the Regional Library or Councils receive funds.
A council which is not a party to this Agreement may, by supplementary 
agreement with the Councils, be admitted as a party to this Agreement and subject to the provisions of the supplementary agreement, shall have the same rights, duties and obligations of the Councils under this Agreement.
A Council may withdraw from this Agreement having given not less than 
twelve months notice in writing to the Chief Executive Officer of its intention to do so.
A Council which has given notice under clause 11.2 must, unless otherwise
agreed by the Councils, withdraw from this Agreement on 30 June in any year.
A Council, which withdraws from this Agreement, shall be entitled to a portion
of the net assets of the Regional Library as at the date of its withdrawal from the Agreement, less an amount which represents the full costs to the Regional Library of the withdrawal.
The portion of net assets to which a Council is entitled under clause 11.4 -
shall be calculated according to the value of the assets as disclosed by 
the relevant audited financial statements;
shall be in the same proportion as its financial contribution to the 
Regional Library bears to all member Councils' financial contributions to the Regional Library over the duration of this Agreement;
may be taken in such combination of property and cash as agreed 
between the Council and the Board, and if it is agreed that a Council is entitled to library materials, the cost of removing them shall be paid for by the Council.
A Council, which withdraws from this Agreement, shall be liable for a portion of 
the liabilities, including contingent liabilities, of the Regional Library as at the date of its withdrawal from the Agreement.
The portion of the liabilities and contingent liabilities to which a Council is liable 
under clause 11.6 -

shall be calculated according to the liabilities and contingent liabilities
as disclosed by the relevant audited financial statements and reports, and any other notes attached to them; and

shall be in the same proportion as its financial contribution to the 
Regional Library bears to all the member Councils' financial contributions to the Regional Library over the duration of this Agreement and

where contracts for goods and services are affected, shall be the full cost
of any additional payments for variations to contractual arrangements resulting from the withdrawal.
Subject to section 197G of the Act, the Regional Library may be dissolved by 
Agreement of at least two thirds (or such other depending on the number of parties to the Agreement) of the parties to this Agreement including those admitted as a party by supplementary agreement.
If the Regional Library is dissolved under this clause -
each Council shall be entitled to a portion of the Regional Library's
assets in the same proportion as its financial contribution to the Regional Library bears to all the member Councils' financial contributions to the Regional Library over the duration of this Agreement; and
each Council shall be liable for a portion of the liabilities and contingent 
liabilities of the Regional Library in the same proportion as its financial contribution to the Regional Library bears to all the member Councils' financial contributions to the Regional Library over the duration of this Agreement.
If there is any dispute or difference between a Council and the Regional Library
or between any of the Councils which arises out of this Agreement or concerns the Regional Library, the matter shall be determined as a dispute under the Commercial Arbitration Act 1984 and the arbitrator's decision shall be final and binding on the parties to the dispute.
The parties to the arbitration shall -
be responsible for their own arbitration costs; and
unless otherwise determined by the arbitrator, share the arbitrator's costs 
equally.


The Adjudicator must:
determine disputes or differences referred to the Adjudicator in accordance with the procedures set out in the Contract Clauses; and 
in discharging the Adjudicator's obligations under this Agreement, abide and be bound by the provisions of the Contract Clauses.
The Adjudicator must, within 5 days after receiving notice from the person described in Item 2 of the Schedule ("Contract Administrator") of a dispute or difference advise the Contract Administrator whether the Adjudicator is available to act in resolving that dispute or difference.
If the Adjudicator advises the Contract Administrator that the Adjudicator can act in resolving the dispute or difference the Adjudicator must, within 5 days of so advising the Contract Administrator, meet with the parties to determine a procedure to resolve the dispute or difference.
The Adjudicator will not be liable to the parties or either of them or to any third party or stranger for anything done or omitted by the Adjudicator pursuant to this Agreement and the parties release and indemnify the Adjudicator from and against any claims for negligence, bias or other misconduct (other than actual fraud) in the course of discharging the Adjudicator's obligations under this Agreement.
The Adjudicator must in discharging the Adjudicator's obligations under this Agreement: 
act as an expert and not as an arbitrator;
proceed in such manner as the Adjudicator thinks fit without being bound to observe the rules of natural justice or the rules of evidence;
take into consideration all documents, information and other written and oral material that the parties place before the Adjudicator including documents, information and material relating to the facts in dispute and to arguments and submissions upon the matters in dispute;
not be expected or required to obtain or refer to any other documents, information or material but may do so if the Adjudicator so desires;
without giving reasons, make a decision in such form as the Adjudicator considers appropriate stating the Adjudicator's determination of the matters in dispute; and
act with expedition with a view to making a decision within the time period required by the Contract.
The Adjudicator may, if the Adjudicator so desires, require as a part of the procedure to be determined under clause 4 arrange to further meet with the parties to discuss the dispute or difference and at and in connection with any such meeting:
neither party may be accompanied by their legal representative; and
the parties agree to be bound by such procedural directions as may be given by the Adjudicator both in preparation for and during the course of the meeting.
The parties agree that any such meeting or meetings will not in any way be regarded as a formal hearing.
Subject to the clause 15.7 of the Contract, the Adjudicator's decision will be final and binding.
In consideration of the Adjudicator performing the Adjudicator's obligations under this Agreement, the Contractor and the Commonwealth must jointly pay to the Adjudicator the amount set out in Item 3 of the Schedule or such other amount as is agreed between all parties to this Agreement.
The Adjudicator must not, at any time, whether before or after the expiration or sooner determination of this Agreement, without the consent of the Commonwealth and the Contractor divulge or suffer or permit the Adjudicator's servants, consultants or agents to divulge to any person:
any details concerning the subject matter of any dispute or difference referred to the Adjudicator under this Agreement; 
any of the contents of the Contract or this Agreement or any other agreements collateral or supplemental to them or any of the commercial bases of them or any information relating to the negotiations concerning them; or 
any information which may have come to the Adjudicator's knowledge in the course of such negotiations or otherwise concerning the operations, dealings, transactions, contracts, commercial or financial arrangements or affairs of the Commonwealth and the Contractor as contemplated by the Contract.
The Adjudicator must be independent from the Commonwealth and the Contractor and (without limitation) the Adjudicator warrants that the Adjudicator has no conflict of interest in acting under this Agreement.
Nothing in this Agreement will be deemed to make the Adjudicator an agent, employee or partner of the Contractor or the Commonwealth.
The Adjudicator must assume full responsibility and liability for the payment of all taxes due on moneys received by the Adjudicator under this Agreement.
The Contractor and the Commonwealth must not make any deductions for taxes, insurance or other benefits from any moneys paid to the Adjudicator under this Agreement.
This Agreement may be terminated by either the Commonwealth or the Contractor by giving the other parties 10 days' written notice in any of the following events:
the Adjudicator being declared of unsound mind or mentally ill;
the Adjudicator being declared bankrupt;
the Adjudicator committing any proven act of dishonesty or, by wilful act or omission or by gross neglect, behaving in a fashion clearly prejudicial to the interests of the Contractor or the Commonwealth or the Works; 
the Adjudicator failing to observe and fulfil any of the substantive terms of this Agreement; or
the Adjudicator being prevented by prolonged illness or incapacity from performing the Adjudicator's obligations under this Agreement.
This Agreement may be terminated by the Adjudicator giving the Commonwealth and the Contractor 60 days' written notice of the Adjudicator's intention to terminate.
All notices to be given to the Adjudicator under this Agreement will be properly given if hand delivered to the Adjudicator or if sent by certified or registered mail to the Adjudicator's address shown in the Agreement or to such other address as the Adjudicator may from time to time advise by notice in writing.
This Agreement will be construed for all purposes pursuant to the laws applying to the Contract.
 

A provision of this Contract shall not be construed to the disadvantage of a Party solely on the basis that it proposed that provision.
CrimTrac searching a central index of names of persons of interest to Police Services for Potential Matches with the Name(s) of the Applicant;
The relevant Police Service comparing Name matches with its Criminal History Information records to determine if the matched Name is that of the Applicant;
Identifying any relevant Criminal History Information (subject to relevant spent convictions/non-disclosure legislation and/or information release policies);
CrimTrac providing a report to the Accredited Agency which indicates either that no record is held or that Criminal History Information exists in relation to the Applicant as appropriate; and
CrimTrac providing Criminal History Information to the Accredited Agency, if Criminal History Information exists in relation to the Applicant.
A NCHRC does not purport to be a complete and comprehensive search of all Australian police records.
Its accuracy and coverage are contingent upon accurate identification of the Applicant and the quality of police records.
Property in each Copy vests or will vest in CrimTrac.
The Accredited Agency must only request a NCHRC in accordance with the procedure set out in Item A of the Schedule.
The Accredited Agency can only request or use information from a NCHRC for the purpose(s) as specified in Item B of the Schedule.
The Accredited Agency understands and accepts the provisions regarding accuracy and use of Criminal History Information that are specified in Item C of the Schedule.
The Accredited Agency must establish the true identity of the Applicant prior to the check being conducted.
The 100-point check available from http://www.austrac.gov.au/files/201_point_check.pdf is the minimum standard for determining identity.
The Accredited Agency must ensure that the Applicant provides Informed Consent to the NCHRC and to CrimTrac disclosing any Criminal History Information to the Accredited Agency, unless the NCHRC is mandated by relevant legislation.
The Accredited Agency must retain the original completed Informed Consent form signed by the Applicant as part of its permanent records.
The existence of a completed Informed Consent form must be indicated in the Enquiry submitted to CrimTrac.
Where the Accredited Agency fails to obtain the Informed Consent of the Applicant, CrimTrac will not provide the NCHRC Services, unless the NCHRC is mandated by relevant legislation.
The Accredited Agency will comply with relevant Commonwealth, State and Territory legislation, including laws relating to Privacy.
Relevant legislation includes the Commonwealth Privacy Act 1988 (Cth) and the Freedom of Information Act 1982 (Cth) and State and Territory freedom of information legislation.
In the event that an Accredited Agency is not subject to the Privacy Act 1988, the Accredited Agency shall be obliged to act in a manner consistent with and take all actions as if it were bound by that Act, noting in particular the National Privacy Principles as defined by that Act.
Where the Criminal History Information is subject to any legal processes, including but not limited to, a subpoena or a Freedom of Information request, the Accredited Agency will consult to the extent allowable under the law in the first instance with CrimTrac and all other parties whose interest in the documents or information is either obvious or apparent, upon receipt of such action or application and prior to its finalisation.
The Accredited Agency must ensure that the Criminal History Information is protected through the implementation of the procedures set out in Item D of the Schedule and this clause 4.6.
Without limiting clause 4.6.1, the Accredited Agency must ensure that:
Only Personnel employed by the Accredited Agency who have been appropriately authorised by the Accredited Agency's Authorised Officer (Agency Personnel) have access to the Criminal History Information;
The Criminal History Information is only used by Agency Personnel for the purposes identified in Item B of the Schedule;
The Criminal History Information is not disclosed to any other agency, entity or person not covered by this Contract without the prior written agreement of CrimTrac and, where disclosure is required by law, CrimTrac is informed.
The Accredited Agency must comply with further CrimTrac security requirements in relation to the NCHRC Services as advised to the Accredited Agency from time to time, and must not depart from meeting those requirements without the prior written approval of CrimTrac.
The Accredited Agency will manage the Criminal History Information at all times so as to protect the privacy of Applicants and the confidentiality of the Criminal History Information and will dispose of the Criminal History Information in accordance with the requirements set out in Item E of the Schedule.
The Accredited Agency must comply with any record-keeping requirements for the purpose of auditing and monitoring compliance with this Contract as set out in Item E of the Schedule.
The Accredited Agency must fully participate in an annual external audit arranged by CrimTrac to assess compliance with this Contract.
The requirements of the audit process are set out in the document NCHRC Audit and Review Program, as updated from time to time by CrimTrac.
The external audit shall be undertaken by an external auditor appointed by CrimTrac or by CrimTrac Personnel.
The Accredited Agency will identify an Authorised Officer at Item F of the Schedule.
Access to, and the handling of, the Criminal History Information provided under this Contract is subject to the control of the Authorised Officer.
An Authorised Officer may be identified at Item F of the Schedule by description of their position held in the Accredited Agency.
The Accredited Agency must ensure that any person nominated as an Authorised Officer:
is of good fame and character; and
will act in all circumstances in a fit and proper manner in relation to any Criminal History Information to which they have access under this Contract.
As conditions of acquiring and maintaining their status as an Authorised Officer, the person nominated by the Accredited Agency will be subject to:
a NCHRC conducted on their appointment as an Authorised Officer and subsequently at least once every five years;
reviews of their suitability for acting as an Authorised Officer from time to time; and
any other security measures as deemed necessary from time to time by CrimTrac.
The Authorised Officer may appoint Agency Personnel to work under the authority or direction of the Authorised Officer.
As conditions of acquiring and maintaining their status as Agency Personnel, the persons to be appointed by the Authorised Officer will be subject to:
a NCHRC conducted on their appointment as Agency Personnel and subsequently at least once every five years;
reviews of their suitability for acting as Agency Personnel from time to time; and
any other security measures as deemed necessary from time to time by CrimTrac.
The Accredited Agency must promptly notify CrimTrac of any change in the circumstances of the Authorised Officer or Agency Personnel that, in the Accredited Agency's reasonable opinion, is likely to affect their ability to carry out their obligations under the Contract.
CrimTrac may, at its absolute discretion, request the Accredited Agency to remove Agency Personnel from work in relation to access to, and handling of, the Criminal History Information provided under this Contract.
In the event referred to in clause 4.9.9, and subject to clause 4.9.7, the Accredited Agency will appoint other Agency Personnel to fulfil the Accredited Agency's obligations under the Contract.
The Accredited Agency will maintain a current list of Authorised Officer and Agency Personnel.
The list will be provided to CrimTrac, at any time, on request.
The list will include details of:
the name of the Authorised Officer;
the name of each Agency Personnel;
the date on which the Authorised Officer and the Agency Personnel were appointed; and
the date on which the most recent NCHRC was conducted.
The Accredited Agency will not disclose to any Applicant the name or contact details of any staff member of CrimTrac.
CrimTrac will: 
Upon receipt of Data concerning an Applicant, commence the NCHRC Services;
Perform the NCHRC Services pursuant to clause 2.1.1.
CrimTrac will use its best endeavours to deliver NCHRC Services to meet the following performance standards: 
95% of Routine NCHRCs completed in 10 Business Days; and 
95% of Urgent NCHRCs completed in 5 Business Days.
The Accredited Agency understands that the wide variety of sources and media on which Criminal History Information is held, including but not limited to hard copy files, microfilm, offline electronic storage and online database systems, means that delays may occur in extracting information to finalise a NCHRC.
Delays are more likely in the case of a NCHRC that requires more than one Police Service to access and assess Criminal History Information.
CrimTrac will comply with relevant State, Territory and Commonwealth legislation.
This includes the Freedom of Information Act 1982 and laws relating to Privacy such as the Commonwealth Privacy Act 1988.
In the event of a request for access to documents or information under legal processes, including but not limited to a subpoena or freedom of information law, however described or characterised, being received, CrimTrac will consult with all other parties whose interest in the documents or information is either obvious or apparent.
Clause 5.3.2 does not prevent CrimTrac from giving access to documents without consultation in circumstances where there is clearly no basis to deny access to the documents to which access is sought under the relevant freedom of information law or other process.
CrimTrac will identify its Authorised Officer under this Contract in Item F of the Schedule.
The Accredited Agency will:
pay the fees specified in Item G of the Schedule, and
make all payments in the manner specified in Item G of the Schedule.
Subject to this clause the Accredited Agency must pay all taxes, duties and government charges imposed or levied in Australia or overseas in connection with the performance of this Contract.
The following terms have the meanings respectively given to them in the A New Tax System (Goods and Services Tax) Act 1999 (Cth):
consideration;

Unless otherwise indicated, all consideration for any supply made under this Contract is exclusive of any GST imposed on the supply.
If one party (the supplier) makes a taxable supply to the other party (the recipient) under this Contract, on receipt of a Tax Invoice from the supplier, the recipient must pay without setoff an additional amount to the supplier equal to the GST imposed on the supply in question.
No Party may claim from the other Party under this Contract any amount for which the first Party may claim an input tax credit.
The Accredited Agency must provide a written security report to CrimTrac immediately if it becomes aware that a Security Incident has occurred.
The security report will include the following information:
details regarding all Security Incidents, including steps taken by the Accredited Agency to address these;
perceived security problems;
where appropriate, recommendations for security improvements;
proposed and actual changes of Agency Personnel; and
any other information that CrimTrac reasonably requires.
The Accredited Agency indemnifies CrimTrac from and against any:
cost or liability incurred by CrimTrac; 
loss of or damage to property of CrimTrac; or
loss or expense incurred by CrimTrac in dealing with any claim against it including legal costs and expenses on a solicitor/own client basis and the cost of time spent, resources used or disbursements paid by CrimTrac,
arising from either:
a breach by the Accredited Agency of this Contract; or
an act or omission involving fault on the part of the Accredited Agency or its Agency Personnel in connection with this Contract.
The Accredited Agency's liability to indemnify CrimTrac under clause 8.1 will be reduced proportionately to the extent that any act or omission involving fault on the part of CrimTrac or its Personnel contributed to the relevant cost, liability, loss, damage or expense.
The right of CrimTrac to be indemnified under this clause 8 is in addition to, and not exclusive of, any other right, power or remedy provided by law, but CrimTrac is not entitled to be compensated in excess of the amount of the relevant cost, liability, loss, damage or expense.
This Contract may be varied at the request of either Party, by the agreement of both Parties, in writing.
The variation will form an annexure to this Contract.
Amendment to this Contract may include amendment to the Schedule and Annexures.
Where there is a dispute arising under this Contract, it will be dealt with as follows:
the Party claiming that there is a dispute will give the other Party a notice setting out the nature of the dispute;
within 5 Business Days, each Party will nominate a delegate;
the delegates will try to settle the dispute by direct negotiation between them;
failing settlement by the delegates within a further 10 Business Days, the Parties may agree to refer the dispute to an independent third person to mediate and recommend some form of non-binding resolution;
the Parties will cooperate fully with any process instigated under clause 10.1.1.d in order to achieve a speedy resolution;
if a resolution is not reached within a further 20 Business Days, either Party may commence legal proceedings.
Each Party will bear its own costs of complying with this clause 10, and the Parties must bear equally the cost of any third person engaged under clause 10.1.1.d.
This clause 10 does not apply to:
action by CrimTrac under or purportedly under clause 11.1;
action by either Party under or purportedly under clause 11.2; or
legal proceedings by either Party seeking urgent interlocutory relief.
CrimTrac may, at any time by notice, terminate this Contract or reduce the scope of the NCHRC Services immediately.
The Accredited Agency agrees, on receipt of a notice of termination or reduction to take all available steps to minimise loss resulting from that termination or reduction; and

In the event of termination under clause 11.1.1, CrimTrac will be liable only to repay any fees paid for the NCHRC Services requested but not received before the effective date of termination.
CrimTrac will not be liable to pay compensation under clauses 11.1.1 and 11.1.2 in an amount that would exceed the compensation payable under clause 

If the Accredited Agency fails to satisfy any of its obligations under this Contract, then CrimTrac - if it considers in good faith and on reasonable grounds that the failure is:
not capable of remedy - may, by notice, terminate this Contract immediately; 
capable of remedy - may, by notice require that the failure be remedied within the time specified in the notice and, if not remedied within that time, may terminate this Contract immediately by giving a second notice.
CrimTrac may also by notice terminate this Contract immediately (but without prejudice to any prior right of action or remedy which either party has or may have) if the Accredited Agency:
being a corporation - comes under one of the forms of external administration referred to in chapter 5 of the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth), or has an order made against it for the purpose of placing it under external administration; or
being an individual - becomes bankrupt or enters into a scheme of arrangement with creditors; or 
being any other entity - becomes bankrupt or enters into a scheme of arrangement with creditors.
Subject to clause 12.4, a Party must not, without the prior written consent of the other Party, disclose any Confidential Information of the other Party to a third party.
CrimTrac may impose any conditions it considers appropriate when giving consent under this clause 12.2 and the Accredited Agency agrees to comply with these conditions.
The Accredited Agency must ensure that the Authorised Officer and all Agency Personnel who have access to the Criminal History Information, sign a Deed of Confidentiality not to access, use, disclose or retain Criminal History Information except for the purposes set out in Item B of the Schedule.
The Deed of Confidentiality is set out at Annexure 1 to the Schedule.
The obligations on the Parties under clause 12.2 will not be taken to have been breached to the extent that Confidential Information:
is disclosed by a Party to its Personnel solely in order to comply with obligations, or to exercise rights, under this Contract;
is disclosed to a Party's internal management Personnel, solely to enable effective management or auditing of Contract-related activities;
is disclosed by CrimTrac to the responsible Minister;
is disclosed by CrimTrac, in response to a request by a House or a Committee of the Parliament of the Commonwealth of Australia;
is shared by CrimTrac within CrimTrac's organisation;
is authorised or required by law to be disclosed; or
is in the public domain otherwise than due to a breach of this clause 12.
Where a Party discloses Confidential Information to another person pursuant to clauses 12.4.1.a - 12.4.1.e, the disclosing Party must notify the receiving person that the information is confidential.
In the circumstances referred to in clauses 12.4.1.a, 12.4.1.b and 12.4.1.e, the disclosing Party agrees not to provide the information unless the receiving person agrees to keep the information confidential.
The Parties may agree in writing after the date of commencement of this Contract that certain additional information is to be Confidential Information for the purposes of this Contract.
The agreement will form an annexure to and will be part of this Contract.
The obligations under this clause 12 continue, notwithstanding the expiry or termination of this Contract:
in relation to an item of information described in Item H of the Schedule - for the period set out in Item H of the Schedule in respect of that item; and
in relation to any item of information referred to in clause 12.5 - for the period agreed by the Parties in writing in respect of that item.
No reduction in privacy obligations

This clause 12 does not detract from any of the Accredited Agency's obligations under relevant laws relating to Privacy.
The Accredited Agency agrees, in carrying out this Contract, to comply with all relevant legislation of the Commonwealth or of any State, Territory or local authority, and in particular:
the Crimes Act 1914 (Cth);
the Privacy Act 1988 (Cth);
the Racial Discrimination Act 1975 (Cth);
the Sex Discrimination Act 1984 (Cth);
the Disability Discrimination Act 1992 (Cth);
the Equal Opportunity for Women in the Workplace Act 1999 (Cth).
The Accredited Agency agrees:
to effect and maintain the insurance specified in Item I of the Schedule; and
on request, to provide proof of insurance acceptable to CrimTrac.
The Accredited Agency agrees not to subcontract the performance of any part of its obligations under this Contract without CrimTrac's prior written approval.
CrimTrac may impose any terms and conditions it considers appropriate when giving its approval under clause 13.3.1.
The Accredited Agency will ensure that any subcontract for the performance of any part of its obligations under this Contract contains, so far as they are relevant to the subcontracted obligations, provisions equivalent to this Contract.
The Accredited Agency is not by virtue of this Contract an officer, employee, partner or agent of CrimTrac, nor does the Accredited Agency have any power or authority to bind or represent CrimTrac.
The Accredited Agency agrees:
not to misrepresent its relationship with CrimTrac; and
not to engage in any misleading or deceptive conduct in relation to the NCHRC Services.
A failure or delay by a Party to exercise any right or remedy it holds under this Contract or at law does not operate as a waiver of that right.
A single or partial exercise by a Party of any right or remedy it holds under this Contract or at law does not prevent the Party from exercising the right again or to the extent it has not fully exercised the right.
The Accredited Agency cannot assign its obligations, and agrees not to assign its rights under this Contract without CrimTrac's prior written approval.
The Accredited Agency agrees to consult CrimTrac before entering into negotiations with any other person regarding any arrangement that might require novation of the Contract.
CrimTrac will not withhold approval of an assignment to a wholly owned subsidiary of the Accredited Agency if:
the proposed assignee is sufficiently capitalised to meet all of the Accredited Agency's obligations under this Contract, including indemnities;
only the Authorised Officer and Agency Personnel continue to access Criminal History Information, subject to the terms of this Contract;
the Accredited Agency guarantees the performance of this Contract by the assignee and any liability on the part of the assignee arising under this Contract;
the proposed assignee fully complies with all criteria applied to the Accredited Agency for receipt of the NCHRC Services; and
the Accredited Agency provides to CrimTrac all information reasonably required to determine compliance under this Contract.
Unless the contrary intention appears, the expiry or earlier termination of this Contract will not affect the continued operation of any provision relating to:
Confidential Information;
the protection of Criminal History Information;
audit;
information security;
an indemnity; or
any other provision which expressly or by implication from its nature is intended to continue.
A notice under this Contract is only effective if it is in writing, and dealt with as follows:
if given by the Accredited Agency to CrimTrac - addressed to the CrimTrac Authorised Officer at the address specified in Item J of the Schedule or  otherwise notified by CrimTrac; or
if given by CrimTrac to the Accredited Agency - given by the CrimTrac Authorised Officer as previously specified (or any superior officer to the CrimTrac Authorised Officer) and addressed (and marked for attention) as specified in Item K of the Schedule or as otherwise notified by the Accredited Agency.
A notice is to be:
signed by the person giving the notice and delivered by hand; or
signed by the person giving the notice and sent by pre-paid post; or
signed by the person giving the notice and sent by facsimile transmission.
A notice is deemed to be effected:
if delivered by hand - upon delivery to the relevant address;
If sent by post - upon delivery to the relevant address;
if sent by facsimile transmission - upon actual receipt by the addressee.
A notice received after 5.00 pm, or on a day that is not a Business Day, is deemed to be effected on the next Business Day.
The Accredited Agency will provide those personal details as set out in A.2 in relation to each Applicant.
These details will be sent to CrimTrac via secure electronic transfer of Data.
The Accredited Agency will provide CrimTrac with the following information for each Applicant:
Surname (including all names under which the Applicant has been known)
Given Name(s) (including all names under which the Applicant has been known)
Date of Birth
Gender
Place of Birth
Current Residential Address
Confirmation that Informed Consent for the check is held
Confirmation of identity in accordance with the Financial Transaction Reports Act 1988 (Cth)
Previous Residential Address(es) (if applicable)
Driver's Licence Number (if applicable)
Passport Number (if applicable).
Purpose for which the NCHRC is being requested

The Accredited Agency may only request an NCHRC for the following purposes:
Employment screening, probity checking and personnel security vetting of potential/existing employees, volunteers, contractors and consultants to assess their suitability for employment/engagement with the Accredited Agency; and

Criminal History Information is compiled from the records of Police Services.
These records are drawn from various sources including historical information held by the Police Services, and are held by Police Services for use as an investigative tool.
It was not necessarily intended that these records be used for the purposes of providing Criminal History Information outside the relevant Police Services.
In addition, Criminal History Information was not necessarily intended to be used in the identification of persons for reasons other than ongoing police investigations.
In that context, Criminal History Information is inherently limited and the Accredited Agency should recognise this limitation.
Consequently, in receiving Criminal History Information the Accredited Agency recognises that while a Police Service providing Criminal History Information through CrimTrac will make every practicable endeavour to ensure that the information relates to the Applicant in question and is correct in its detail, neither the Police Service nor CrimTrac accepts any responsibility or liability for any error or omission whatsoever in the information.
Information provided in relation to a NCHRC under this Contract may not, for one reason or another, relate to the Applicant and further validation may be required.
The Accredited Agency will bring to the Applicant's notice any matters relating to Criminal History Information obtained from a NCHRC that could cause an adverse decision in respect to their assessment.
Where the Applicant disputes the accuracy of the information provided from police records, either in part or in full, the Accredited Agency shall take all steps necessary to provide the Applicant with information about the steps the Applicant must take to establish a comparison fingerprint check, and the Accredited Agency will then liaise with CrimTrac in the first instance to determine whether the Criminal History Information released relates to that Applicant.
Subject to any relevant legislation, the Accredited Agency may use the Criminal History Information provided about an Applicant in decision processes related to the assessment of suitability for a profession, an undertaking, appointment, or employment.
However, CrimTrac recommends that consideration of the Criminal History Information form only one part of the assessment processes for an Applicant's suitability.
In forming assessments, the Accredited Agency should consider the relevance of the Criminal History Information to the specific nature of the decision.
Where Criminal History Information is provided, the Accredited Agency will take into account:
the scope of the Applicant's criminal history;
the nature of the offence and the relationship of the offence to the particular position/profession or other decision under consideration;
the period of time that has elapsed since the offence took place;
whether the offence was committed as an adult or a juvenile;
the type of penalty imposed by the court such as whether the court elects not to record a conviction where the person enters into and successfully completes a conditional order such as bond or probation, and whether the Applicant has successfully completed the order;
the severity of any penalty imposed; and
whether the offence has been decriminalised or removed from the statutes.
The Accredited Agency acknowledges that the initial check of the Name provided by the Accredited Agency against the central index of names of persons of interest to Police Services may indicate that further investigation may be required with one or more Police Services.
Subsequent enquiries may show that no Criminal History Information is available for release regarding the Applicant.
In these instances the Accredited Agency will not take the fact that an Applicant is not immediately cleared into account in its assessment.
The Accredited Agency acknowledges that where the Commonwealth or States/Territories have spent convictions/non-disclosure legislation or information release policies, it will not receive details of spent convictions unless there is an applicable exemption or exclusion from such legislation or policies.
The Accredited Agency will ensure that only the Authorised Officer and Agency Personnel manage Criminal History Information and will restrict access to Criminal History Information and Data on a strict 'need-to-know' basis.
The Accredited Agency will keep the Criminal History Information secure and protected by implementing safeguards to prevent loss, unauthorised access, use, modification, disclosure or other misuse, including unauthorised reproduction by any means within their respective agencies.
Safeguards are to include:
information to be filed in such a manner as to be accessible only to the Authorised Officer and Agency Personnel;
files to be marked 'Personnel-In-Confidence'; and
the use of lockable filing systems.
CrimTrac will transfer Criminal History Information obtained from Police Services to the Accredited Agency by: 
facsimile sent to a dedicated (and, where physically possible, isolated) facsimile number designated by the Accredited Agency; or
secure electronic means including but not restricted to encrypted email; or
direct access to an appropriate CrimTrac system.
The Accredited Agency will transfer Criminal History Information obtained from CrimTrac by: 
facsimile sent to a dedicated (and, where physically possible, isolated) facsimile number; or
secure electronic means including but not restricted to encrypted email; or
direct access to an appropriate CrimTrac system.
The Accredited Agency, in consultation with CrimTrac, will implement a system of tracking the despatch, receipt, handling, storage and disposal of the Criminal History Information provided by the Police Services.
Retention and Recording of Information by the Accredited Agency

The Accredited Agency shall retain as permanent records documents, including but not limited to, original completed Informed Consent forms, confirmation that a NCHRC has been conducted and how the Criminal History Information affected any associated decision making processes within the Accredited Agency.
The Accredited Agency will not make Criminal History Information or Copies a permanent part of its records and will retain such Criminal History Information or Copies for a period not exceeding three months of receipt from CrimTrac unless approval to retain the Criminal History Information or Copies for a longer period has been given by CrimTrac in writing.
The Accredited Agency is aware that if Criminal History Information is retained for an indefinite time, there is the likelihood that some convictions could become spent and therefore non-disclosable under Commonwealth and some State spent convictions legislation.
Once a conviction becomes spent and thus non-disclosable, the Accredited Agency and its staff risk being in breach of spent convictions legislation, should details of a spent conviction be inadvertently disclosed.
Criminal History Information will be destroyed by the Authorised Officer or Agency Personnel authorised to have access to the information by any method that will prevent the identity of the Applicant being deduced from reconstitution of the residue.
The due date for payment will be thirty (30) days after delivery of a correctly rendered invoice, monthly in arrears.
Disputes regarding invoices may be referred to:

The Accredited Agency agrees to pay an invoice under dispute and, when the dispute is resolved in the Accredited Agency's favour, reimbursement on credit will apply.
The NCHRC fee structure is subject to review by the CrimTrac Board of Management annually.
The Accredited Agency will be informed of any variations to the fee structure with a minimum six months notice.
Subject to G.7 the fee (GST exclusive) is $25.75 per Non-Government NCHRC, $20.60 per Government NCHRC and $5.15 per Volunteer NCHRC.
Payment will be effected by electronic funds transfer (EFT) to the following bank account of CrimTrac: BSB No: 092009 Account No: 114792.


The Bloodstock Agent (Neil Brockington) is to be given his fee from the 
Selling Party(s), if during the time frame period exclusively given to A Trojan Bloodstock, the horse is sold by Neil Brockington OR the Selling Party(s).
After the Exclusive Time Frame Period has expired the Bloodstock Agent (Neil Brockington) is also entitled to his fee, if the Selling Party(s) enter into an official agreement with any other agent/agency or person, for the sale of the above mentioned horse, to a buyer who was formerly introduced to the Selling Party(s) by Neil Brockington during the Exclusive Time Frame Period agreed with A Trojan Bloodstock.
A Trojan Bloodstocks' commission or Neil Brockington's fee is 10% of the horses selling price or a minimum fee of $500 if the horse is worth less than $5000.
After the exclusive time period has expired, the Selling Party(s) shall grant non-exclusive selling rights to A Trojan Bloodstock until the horse is sold and A Trojan Bloodstock as agreed in clause 3 are given the commission of 10% of the total price of the horse for sale or a minimum of $500 if the horse is worth less than $5000.
The Selling Party(s) guarantees and warrants their authorisation to enter into this exclusive Selling Agreement of three weeks and a non-exclusive agreement after the three-week exclusive time period has expired.
A Trojan Bloodstock (Neil Brockington) will do everything in its power to sell the horse in question via the internet, emailing clients and customers, advertising and phone calls.
A Trojan Bloodstock's fee is to be paid upon selling the horse and will be taken out of the total 
horse's price and the remaining moneys will be forwarded onto the Selling Party(s).
If the Selling Party(s) breaks the Exclusive Selling Agreement contract A Trojan Bloodstock will be entitled to its fee on completion of the sale of the horse.

Reference to any person or to any party to this Agreement shall include that person's or party's legal personal representatives, executors, administrators, successors and permitted assigns.
Words importing the singular shall include the plural and vice versa and words importing any gender will include all genders.
Where the day on or by which any act, matter or thing is required to be done is a day other than a business day in the place in which the act, matter or thing is to be done, such act, matter or thing shall be done on the next succeeding business day unless specifically provided for to the contrary in this Agreement.
Headings and underlinings are for convenience only and shall not affect the interpretation of this Agreement.
Where a word or phrase is given a defined meaning, any other part of speech or grammatical form in respect of such word or phrase shall have a  corresponding meaning.
When a party comprises two or more persons, the rights and obligations of such persons pursuant to this Agreement shall have effect for the benefit of and bind all of them jointly and each of them severally.
The Customer engages the ESCO to provide the Services in accordance with the terms and conditions of this Agreement and to prepare and submit the DFS to the Customer.
Subject to Clause 3 of this Agreement, the ESCO, in preparing and conducting the DFS, is to ensure the following:

provision of a full and detailed description of the energy consumption and facility operational characteristics of the premises utilising the Energy Conservation Measures ("ECMs") that it proposes to install;

detailed description of the energy savings that the ESCO intends to deliver under the EPC between the parties; and

establishment of a Measurement and Verification Plan ("MVP") for guaranteeing and verifying savings from ECMs.
The ESCO must provide the Services and document the results and outcomes of the provision of the Services in the DFS and must ensure that the DFS includes at least the following information:

a detailed description of those equipment and energy systems in place at the premises that will be impacted by the Services, their condition at the time of the DFS and their operating methods;

the energy consumption and demand profile and the space conditions of the facilities on the premises;


a description of the ECMs and improvements proposed by the ESCO, the cost of the installation of the ECMs and improvements, the projected Internal Rate of Return for each site on the premises and the impact of the proposed ECMs and improvements on the energy consumption and demand profile of each site and on the space conditions of the facilities on the premises;

a brief description of the intended purpose of each of the modifications proposed by the ESCO to the equipment or systems and/or to the operating methods of the equipment or systems;

a projection as to any changes in capacity of the existing equipment due to the modifications or improvements contemplated;

an outline of training programmes or instruction required for the Customer's facilities managers and operators and summary of the involvement of facilities managers and operators likely to be necessary to effect the improvements;

estimated figures projected as the annual energy savings which will result from the modifications or improvements together with an indication of how these figures are arrived at, with performance criteria defined in terms of lumens, l/sec of air temp, etc;

a summary of the intended schedule for implementing the modifications and improvements including the timing and estimated duration of on-site work in respect of each distinct location or facility;

an indication of altered or new operating or maintenance requirements which will apply due to implementation of the improvements and an estimate of the cost of any upgrading or maintenance work that the ESCO recommends to be undertaken prior to or during the implementation of the modifications/improvements in order to maximise their effect;

a full description of all new equipment which is to be installed to effect the improvements together with an estimate of the expected lifetime of that new equipment, including engineering summaries and detailed equipment data sheets,  as well as the effect its installation may have on the expected lifetime of the existing equipment and a full description of the warranty and servicing arrangements which will apply to the existing equipment and to the new equipment installed.
The provision of full equipment data sheets is subject to the final negotiation of the EPC, and hence should the ESCO not be able to provide a complete and final equipment data sheet, a draft sheet shall be provided, with complete details provided after negotiation of the EPC;

an MVP for monitoring, verifying and guaranteeing savings from the implementation of the ECMs, which is to be based on the International Performance Measurement & Verification Plan (IPMVP) which is acceptable to both parties.
the maximum project costs identified in the DFS do not exceed the cost limit specified in Item 3 of the Schedule;

the minimum energy savings identified are at least the amount specified in Item 4 of the Schedule;

the Internal Rate of Return is no less than the rate specified in Item 5 of the Schedule; and

the proposed ECMs and the other procedures specified in the DFS will not diminish the effective operation of the Customer and its facilities on the premises nor impede or diminish the effectiveness of existing operational projects.
The ESCO must perform the Services diligently, with all the skill and care expected as necessary for provision of such Services, and in accordance with all representations and warranties as to the ESCO's experience and ability expressly or impliedly made by reference to its Proposal and this Agreement, or by law.
The ESCO must perform the Services expeditiously and in accordance with the time limits, if any, specified in Item 2 of the Schedule.
The ESCO warrants that throughout the duration of its engagement: 

it must keep the Customer's Materials secure and free from interference at all times and the ESCO hereby indemnifies the Customer for any liability the Customer may incur as a result of any breach of this clause;

upon the completion or earlier termination of this Agreement, the ESCO must as soon as practicable return the Customer's Materials and the Contract Material to the Customer; and

neither Clause 3.5(b) nor Clause 3.6 shall be construed as prohibiting the ESCO from making and keeping a copy of the Contract Material for its records.
The ESCO may not assign or sub-contract the performance of any part of the Services without the prior written consent of the Customer.
If requested by the Customer, the ESCO will provide to the Customer the names and addresses of any sub-contractors appointed by the ESCO.
By sub-contracting any part or parts of the provision of the Services, the ESCO will not be relieved of any of its liabilities or obligations under this Agreement.
The ESCO must ensure that all work done in connection with the Services complies with all relevant legislation, regulations, codes of conduct and all relevant Australian Standards applicable to the performance of the Services.
The ESCO must further ensure that all work done in connection with the Services complies with any policy and procedures of the Customer.
The Customer must provide its policy and procedures to the ESCO on or before the date of execution of this agreement and provide any changes made from time to time as soon as reasonably practicable.
The ESCO warrants that, as at the date of execution of this Agreement, it is not aware of any conflict of interest which would affect its ability to provide the Services in accordance with the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
As soon as the ESCO becomes aware of the existence, or the possibility, of a conflict of interest, the ESCO must give written notice of this to the Customer, in which event the Customer reserves its rights under Clause 11.
Immediately upon receipt of reasonable notice from the Customer during the term of this Agreement, the ESCO must  provide the Customer with access to the ESCO or the ESCO's Representative in order for the Customer to inspect, discuss or assess the status of the provision of the Services.
The Customer must fully co-operate with the ESCO in connection with the conduct and completion of the DFS by the ESCO and undertakes to ensure that neither it nor any of its agents, servants, sub-contractors or employees shall unreasonably impede the ESCO in providing the Services in accordance with this Agreement.
The Customer will ensure at all times that it is the owner or lessee of the premises and the existing equipment and energy systems in place at the premises during the continuance of this Agreement and that it will obtain and provide evidence of the consent of any mortgagee, chargee, owner or other party whose consent may be required in relation to the carrying out of the Services in accordance with this Agreement as reasonably required by the ESCO.
Upon receipt of any request by the ESCO or otherwise as required by this Agreement the Customer must make available to the ESCO all relevant instructions, information, documentation, data or any other material which the ESCO requires to facilitate performance of the Services including, but not limited to:

contracts for facilities management, maintenance, energy supply or other contracts that may impact on the provision of the Services;

all energy bills, tariff sheets and rate schedules, etc.
; and

details of the operation of the premises including hours of operation, floor areas, number of occupants, usage patterns, etc.
The Customer must ensure that all relevant material referred to in Clause 4.3(a) and requested by the ESCO for the purposes of providing the Services is true and accurate and that it is not aware of anything in that relevant material which will hinder the ESCO in providing the Services in accordance with this Agreement.
The ESCO shall not be liable for any inaccuracies, errors or misdescriptions in its projections or other information contained in the DFS that arise wholly or principally as a result of deficiencies in or omissions from the Customer's Materials.
The Customer shall be obliged to inform the ESCO in the event that it is or becomes aware of any deficiencies or omissions from the Customers Materials.
Subject to the provisions of Clauses 5.2 and 5.3 below, the Customer must pay to the ESCO the DFS Fee specified in Item 6 of the Schedule within thirty (30) days of the delivery to it of the DFS by the ESCO PROVIDED THAT the Customer is satisfied that the ESCO has delivered the Services in accordance with the terms and conditions of this Agreement and that the DFS meets or exceeds the objectives set out in this Agreement, in the Proposal, or the Request for Proposals, whether or not the parties proceed to execute an EPC.
DFS Fee to be incorporated in costs of any resultant EPC

Should the Customer wish to negotiate an EPC following submission of the DFS, the Customer must notify the ESCO in writing within twenty one (21) days of its receipt of the DFS in which case payment of the DFS Fee will be deferred pending the conclusion of the negotiation of the EPC.
the amount of the DFS Fee will be incorporated within the project costs associated with that EPC; and

payment of the DFS Fee will then be governed by the terms of the EPC as concluded between the parties.
Should the parties not proceed to execution of an EPC, the Customer shall pay the Fee within fourteen (14) days of the termination of negotiations as referred in Clause 5.2(a), such termination to be effected by notice in writing given by either party to the other party.
Subject to Clause 5.3, where the ESCO has failed to adequately deliver the Services as defined in this Agreement or the DFS fails to meet the objectives set out in this Agreement, the Proposal or the Request for Proposals, then the Customer may immediately terminate this Agreement without any liability arising on its part to make payment of the DFS Fee to the ESCO.
The Customer may elect to instruct the ESCO to amend the DFS so as to adequately deliver the Services and/or meet the objectives set out in this Agreement, the Proposal or the Request for Proposals, in which case the ESCO shall be liable for payment of all costs of any work required to be done to rectify the DFS and the Customer shall be liable to pay no more than the DFS Fee specified in Item 6 of the Schedule upon the satisfactory rectification of the DFS and payment in accordance with Clause 5.1 shall not be required until the Customer determines that the Services have been satisfactorily provided.
The Customer may at any time during the term of this Agreement make a written request to the ESCO to vary the Services to be delivered pursuant to this Agreement.
The Services will only be varied if the ESCO is of the reasonable opinion that the requested variation will not substantially affect the objectives originally agreed upon before the Agreement was executed.
Any such variation that, in the reasonable opinion of the ESCO or the Customer, extends beyond or markedly reduces the objectives set out in Clause 2.2 or substantially broadens or narrows the scope of the Services required pursuant to Clause 3.1, shall entitle the ESCO or the Customer to renegotiate the DFS Fee payable pursuant to Clause 5.1 and the ESCO shall not be required to perform the variation until such time as the DFS Fee has been renegotiated.
In the event that the parties cannot agree on the DFS Fee payable in respect of the variation, the Customer shall not thereby be entitled to terminate this Agreement unless or until a determination has been made pursuant to Clause 15.
Subject to this Agreement and to the terms of the Request for Proposals, on or as soon as practicable after the expiration or earlier termination of this Agreement, the ESCO must deliver to the Customer all Contract Material and the Customer's Materials and the parties acknowledge that the Customer may make full use in any manner it chooses of the data contained in the DFS.
The parties acknowledge that, subject to the ESCO's obligations contained in Clause 3.6, the ESCO may keep a copy of the Contract Material for its own records.
The parties agree that the ESCO retains all intellectual property rights in relation to all modelling software, other computer programmes, any equipment, materials, systems and any other document or thing used to generate the data incorporated in the DFS.
Provided the parties proceed to execute an EPC, the ESCO may grant to the Customer a licence to use any of the property rights referred to in Clause 7.2(a).
The licence is personal to the Customer and the Customer may not sublicense any of those property rights.
Subject to the terms of the Request for Proposals, the licence is limited to the premises and the Customer may not use the property rights referred to in Clause 7.2(a) other than on or in relation to the premises.
The Customer must not modify, copy, merge or reverse engineer the property referred to in Clause 7.2(a) with any other software programme, equipment or material.
The parties each agree not to disclose any information confidential to the other party disclosed pursuant to this Agreement without the prior written consent of the other party except where such information is:

publicly available other than through breach of this Contract;

lawfully known to the party to which it is disclosed;

approved for release in writing by an authorised representative of the party owning the information;

disclosed only to a party's employees, board members, auditors, insurers, lawyers, lenders or other persons having a legitimate reason to know such information;

required by law to be disclosed; or

where disclosure is necessary to the performance of the 	Services by the ESCO.
The Customer acknowledges and consents to the use by the ESCO of any data and information relating to the energy consumption at the premises, whether provided by the Customer or obtained by the ESCO, for the purposes of benchmarking and compilation of a national data base, or for the purposes of use of the ESCO as a reference.
If the Customer breaches this Clause, the Customer agrees that it shall be liable to pay liquidated damages to the ESCO in the sum  of [figure to be negotiated on a case by case basis],
and it is agreed by the parties that the obligations set out in this Clause 8 will survive the completion or earlier termination of this Agreement.
Subject to Clause 4.4 and Clause 9.3, the ESCO indemnifies the Customer against any damage, liability, loss, claim or expense suffered or incurred by the Customer arising from any wilful or negligent act, error or omission of the ESCO or its employees, agents or subcontractors except to the extent that the damage, liability, loss, claim or expense is caused or contributed to by the Customer, its employees, agents, subcontractors or invitees.
Subject to Clause 9.3, the Customer indemnifies the ESCO against any damage, liability, loss, claim or expense suffered or incurred by the ESCO arising from any wilful or negligent act, error or omission of the Customer or its employees, agents, subcontractors or invitees except to the extent that the damage, liability, loss, claim or expense is caused or contributed to by the ESCO, its employees, agents or subcontractors.
Neither party shall be liable for loss or damage of any kind beyond the amounts for which it is required to be insured in respect of those types of loss or damage as set out in Item 8 of Schedule.
The ESCO must ensure that an insurance policy is effected prior to commencing performance of the Services and remains current until the expiration of the period, if any, specified in Item 2 of the Schedule, covering liability for loss, damage, claims and all direct or associated costs and expenses arising at common law or under workers compensation legislation in respect of persons employed by the ESCO.
]The ESCO must obtain a policy of public liability insurance for at least the amount specified in Item 8 of the Schedule and in terms approved by the Customer (which approval will not be unreasonably withheld) prior to commencing performance of the Services and must maintain that policy for the duration of this Agreement.
The ESCO must provide the Customer with proof of all insurance required to be maintained by the ESCO under this Agreement.
The ESCO must keep proper accounts, records (including information stored by computer and other devices) and time sheets in accordance with accounting principles generally applied in relevant commercial practice in respect of its charges, fees and/or billing, and any disbursements payable pursuant to this Agreement.
The termination of this Agreement by either party shall be without prejudice to any accrued rights or remedies of each party including, without limiting the generality of this clause, the right of the ESCO to be paid in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.
The Customer may terminate the whole or any part of the performance of the Services at any time by giving written notice to the ESCO and, absent any default by the ESCO, the Customer must pay to the ESCO, within (7) seven days of notice of termination being given, a sum equivalent to half the Fee specified in Item 6 of the Schedule.
Termination by the ESCO

If the Customer:

fails to pay the ESCO in accordance with this Agreement; or

commits a substantive breach of this Agreement;

the ESCO may forthwith terminate this Agreement by written notice served on the Customer.
Termination by the Customer in accordance with Clause 11.4 will not release the ESCO from liability in respect of any breach or non-performance of any obligation by the ESCO pursuant to this Agreement.
Subject to any contrary legislative intention, the parties agree that if any authority, institute, association or other body being the Customer in this Agreement either:

ceases to exist; and

is reconstituted, renamed or replaced; or

if its powers or functions are transferred to another entity;

this Agreement is deemed to refer to the new entity succeeding or replacing the Customer and all of the Customer's rights and obligations under this Agreement will continue and will become rights and obligations of that new entity.
This Agreement is to be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws applying in New South Wales [or other State or Territory] and the parties agree to submit to the exclusive jurisdiction of the courts of New South Wales [or other State or Territory] and of those courts competent to determine appeals from New South Wales [or other State or Territory] courts.
If any dispute arises under this Agreement, representatives of the parties must meet within seven (7) days of either party giving written notice of the dispute to the other party and attempt to resolve the dispute.
If any dispute is not resolved within fourteen (14) days of the issue of a notice under Clause 15.1, or such longer period as may be agreed in writing between the parties, either party may refer the dispute to an appropriately qualified expert for determination.
The nominated expert shall determine the dispute as an expert and not as an arbitrator, and the process of determination shall not be a process of arbitration.
If the parties cannot agree on an expert within seven (7) days of a referral for expert determination pursuant to Clause 15.2, then either party may ask the Australian Commercial Disputes Centre to appoint an expert.
The parties shall each pay one half of the costs of any expert appointed under Clause 15.3 and the determination of the expert shall be final and binding on the parties.
The procedures applying to any expert determination under the Agreement shall be as agreed between the parties, or, failing agreement, in accordance with the Expert Determination Guidelines of the Australian Commercial Disputes Centre.
Nothing in this Clause will prevent either party seeking urgent relief from a court (including to restrain any breach of intellectual property rights).
If there are any inconsistencies between the Services to be provided and/or the terms and conditions for the provision of Services as detailed in this Agreement, the Request for Proposals and the Proposal then, to the extent of any inconsistency, the Request for Proposals and this Agreement will have precedence over the Proposal.
Neither delay in exercising any rights nor condoning or waiver of any breach of this Agreement on any one or more occasions shall be held or construed to be a waiver of any other subsequent or antecedent breach of this Agreement.
No provision of this Agreement shall be deemed to have been waived unless such waiver shall be in writing and signed by the party giving notice of such waiver.
A notice:

may be given by an officer of the relevant party;

must be in writing; 

may be delivered by hand, by prepaid ordinary post (airmail if outside Australia) or by facsimile; and 

subject to Clause 17.3, must be sent to the address or facsimile number specified in Item 9 of the Schedule.
A notice is deemed to be given:

if sent by hand, at the time of delivery;

if sent by letter, on the third (seventh if outside Australia) day after posting; and

if sent by facsimile, at the time recorded on the transmission report, unless the transmission report indicates a faulty or incomplete transmission.
A party must notify the other party if it has changed its address or facsimile number and a party must send a notice to the other party's last notified address or facsimile number.
This Agreement may not be modified, amended, added to or otherwise varied except by a document in writing signed by each of the parties.
Subject to Clause 20.2 and in addition to any other fees owing to the ESCO under this Agreement, the Customer must reimburse the ESCO for any federal, state, local or excise taxes that may be imposed on the purchase by the Customer of the Services to be provided under this Agreement when the provider of such services is required by law to collect such taxes.
All prices and fees stated in this Agreement or provided under this Agreement must include GST which may be applicable.
Every invoice issued must be in the form of a valid GST tax invoice, or be accompanied by a valid GST tax invoice.
No amount is payable under this Agreement until a valid GST tax invoice for the amount is received.
If there is any abolition or reduction of any tax, duty, excise or statutory charge associated with the GST, or any change in the GST, the consideration payable for the supply must be varied so that the ESCO's net dollar margin in respect of the supply remains the same.
If the Customer is required to reimburse the ESCO for any costs or other amount, despite any other provision of this Agreement, the Customer does not have to pay to the ESCO any sum included in that amount for which the ESCO can claim an input tax credit or other like offset.
The parties further agree to be bound by the provisions of any clause relating to taxation that may be included in this Agreement as set out in Appendix 1.  





The parties appoint the mediator to mediate in accordance with the terms of 	this agreement the dispute between them.
The dispute is briefly described in 	Schedule 1 to this Agreement (the "Dispute").
The mediator accepts the 	appointment to mediate the Dispute at a time and place agreed to by the parties 	and set out in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
The mediator will be neutral and impartial.
The mediator will assist the parties to attempt to resolve the dispute by helping them to: 
systematically isolate the issues in dispute; 
develop options for the resolution of these issues; 
explore the usefulness of these options; and 
meet their interests and needs.
The mediator may meet with the parties together or separately.
The mediator will not: 
give legal or other professional advice to any party; or 
impose a result on any party; or 
make decisions for any party.
The mediator will not accept an appointment or act for any party in relation to 	any proceedings concerning the Dispute.
Neither party will take action to cause the mediator to breach Clause 5.
The mediator must, prior to the commencement of the mediation, disclose to 	the parties to the best of the mediator's knowledge any prior dealings with any 	of the parties as well as any interest in the Dispute.
If in the course of the mediation the mediator becomes aware of any 	circumstances that might reasonably be considered to affect the mediator's 	capacity to act impartially, the mediator must immediately inform the parties 	of these circumstances.
The parties will then decide whether the mediation 	will continue with that mediator or with a new mediator appointed by the 	parties.
Co-Operation by the Parties 
The parties must co-operate with the mediator and each other during the 	mediation.
As part of the mediation the mediator will schedule a preliminary conference 	at a time and venue convenient to the parties to establish a timetable for the 	mediation.
The mediator, the parties and their representatives who are to attend the 	mediation session must attend the preliminary conference.
If a party is a natural person, the party is expected to attend the preliminary 	conference and the mediation  conference in person with authority to settle 	within any range that can reasonably be anticipated.
If a party is not a natural 	person it must be represented at the preliminary conference and the mediation 	conference by a person with full authority to make agreements binding on it 	settling the Dispute.
At the mediation each party may have one or more other persons, including 	legally qualified persons, to assist and advise them.
Any information disclosed to a mediator in private is to be treated as 	confidential by the mediator unless the party making the disclosure states 	otherwise.
The participants will not disclose to anyone not involved in the mediation any 	information or document given to them during the mediation unless that 	person has signed the prescribed confidentiality agreement in the form 	attached to this agreement.
The participants agree that subject to Clauses 20 and 21, the following will be 	privileged and will not be disclosed in, or be the subject of a subpoena to give 	evidence or to produce documents, in any proceedings in respect of the 	Dispute: 
Any settlement proposal whether made by a party or the mediator.
The willingness of a party to consider any such proposal.
Any statement made by a party or the mediator during the mediation.
Any information prepared for the mediation.
The Mediator will return/destroy (delete as applicable) all documentation other than the mediation agreement and any terms of settlement.
A party may terminate the mediation at any time after consultation with the 	mediator.
18.2  	The mediator has a discretion to terminate or suspend the process at anytime.
The mediator may terminate the mediator's involvement in the mediation if, 	after consultation with the parties, the mediator feels unable to assist the 	parties to achieve resolution of the Dispute.
If agreement is reached at the mediation, the terms of the agreement must be 	written down and signed by the parties before they leave the mediation.
Any party may enforce the terms of the settlement agreement by judicial 	proceedings.
For the purposes of Clause 20, any party may call evidence of the settlement 	agreement including evidence from the mediator and any other person 	engaged in the mediation.
All costs associated with this mediation to be paid for by (insert names) as otherwise ordered by the Court.
The mediator will not be liable to a party for any act or omission in the 	performance of the mediator's obligations under this agreement unless the act 	or omission is fraudulent.
The parties together and separately indemnify the mediator against any claim 	for any act or omission in the performance of the mediator's obligations under 	this agreement unless the act or omission is fraudulent.
The parties together and separately will be liable to the mediator for the 	mediator's fees described in Schedule 3.
The parties will share equally all the 	other costs of the mediation described in Schedule 3.
If the mediation does not result in an agreement to resolve the dispute, the costs of the mediation will be costs in the cause, i.e. costs of the mediation (including those of the legal representatives to attend the mediation) will be 	treated as part of the overall costs in subsequent court proceedings which are 	generally payable by the losing party. 