DVA GRANT AGREEMENT

Template No 5
(Version: June 2004)



Contract Advisory Unit
Department of Veterans' Affairs



CAU Clearance - Please ensure you have complied with Chief Executive Instructions 5.3 and 5.22 in relation to CAU clearance of contracting documentation.

Clean Copy - To ensure that the final document is a clean copy ready for signing, please:
* make sure you have turned off the "Track changes while editing" mode;
* remove this  cover page;
* delete the words "Draft Only" from the header;
* delete all of the guidance and drafting notes and tips; and
* generate a new table of contents.


This agreement is made on the Xth day of (month) two thousand and three 


BETWEEN: 	THE STATE OF NEW SOUTH WALES
       Department of Education and Training
       School Name
       School Address
       Suburb STATE Postcode
       ABN: 0000000

AND:	Name
             Address
             Suburb  Postcode
             ABN number


IT IS AGREED THAT:
1. SCOPE OF AGREEMENT

8. OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY AND LIABILITY
9.	DISCLOSURE

10. 
TERMINATION
11.  	DISPUTE RESOLUTION











GRANT AGREEMENT


between 


the Commonwealth as represented by the Department of
Veterans' Affairs,
 the Repatriation Commission 
and 
the Military Rehabilitation and Compensation Commission
(Australian Business Number 23 964 290 824)


and


[Insert name of Grantee and ABN]

Important Note - This Agreement, when completed, constitutes a legal document and as such creates legal obligations between the parties involved.  Each person signing on behalf of the Grantee must make themselves aware of the terms and conditions of the Agreement. 




DOCUMENT OVERVIEW - HOW IS IT STRUCTURED?

The nature of this document: The Agreement contained in this document (once completed by the parties) records the Grant Agreement, including its purpose (see clause 2.1 and Schedule Part A [Purpose]).

Schedule and Clauses: The Agreement starts with the "Schedule", which describes the specific purpose, parties, services, payment details and standards applying to the Agreement in respect of an individual deal. 
The Schedule Parts precede the standard clauses (the "Clauses") for providing services to, or for, the Department of Veterans' Affairs (DVA).

The Schedule allows for the specific details to be entered that make the Clauses effective. 

Some Parts of the Schedule describe essential issues (eg, the Grant and Payment). Others enable the parties to cover optional issues (eg, financial incentives or IT connectivity). Some Schedule Parts relate to Clauses that spell out the Commonwealth's requirements (eg, ensuring access to records for auditors and protecting privacy).

Signatures Page and Agreement Date: The Signature Page is where the parties indicate assent to this Agreement (ie, that they entered this Agreement from the "Agreement Date").

Under Schedule Part D, the parties' obligations may be expressed to occur before the specific "Agreement Date".

Cross-referencing names: Cross-referencing from the provisions of the Schedule Parts and the Clauses of the Agreement include a shorthand description for ease of reference.  This style of cross-referencing is encouraged for use in drafting Schedule Parts.



TABLE OF CONTENTS -

THE SCHEDULE	1
- PURPOSE, PARTIES AND TASK -	1
Part A.	What is this Agreement's purpose?	1
Part B.	Who is the Grantee?	1
B(a)	What is the Grantee's legal identity?	1
B(b)	Who represents the Grantee?	2
B(c)	Are Specified Personnel required?	2
Part C.	How is  DVA represented?	2
C(a)	Details of Australian Government entities	2
C(b)	Who represents  DVA as a delegate or for liaison?	3
Part D. Project and Timing	3
Part E. Deliverables	3
-  FINANCE -	4
Part F. Payment of Grant	4
Part G. Invoices for GST purposes	4
Where a Tax Invoice to be issued by the Grantee	4
Where DVA shall issue a Recipient Created Tax Invoice (RCTI)	4
Part H. Assistance	5
Part I. Audit	5
-  STANDARDS -	5
Part J. Quality Standards	5
Part K. Communications and Dispute Resolution	5
Part L. Accountability and Risk Management	5
Part M. Managing Assets and Project Material	6
Part N. Intellectual Property Ownership and Rights	6
Part O. Applicable Law	6
THE CLAUSES	6
1.    Parties and Starting Date	6
2.    Project, Timing and Standards	6
3.    Grant Payment and Assistance	6
4.    Audit and Monitoring	7
5.    GST Invoice Requirements	7
6.    Liaison	7
7.    Notices	7
8.    Specified Personnel	8
9.    Accountability	8
10.  Dispute Resolution	8
11.  Property and Assets	8
12.  Intellectual Property Management	9
13.  Privacy and Confidentiality	9
14.  Indemnity and Insurance	10
15.  Conflict of Interest	10
16.  No Employee, Partner or Agent Status	10
17.  Default	10
18.  Interpretation, Variation and Severability	11
19.  Definitions	11
THE SIGNATURES PAGE	14



THE SCHEDULE

- PURPOSE, PARTIES AND TASK -
Part A.	What is this Agreement's purpose?
	Relates to clause 2.1

The purpose of this Agreement is to provide a Grant of financial assistance to the Grantee for ..................................................
Part B.	Who is the Grantee?
B(a)	What is the Grantee's legal identity?
Relates to clause 1.1(a) [Parties and Starting Date] and clause 7.1.(b) (Notices)

Full legal name of Grantee

Legal identity (eg, individual, company, partnership etc)

Trading or business name

Any relevant licence, registration or provider number

Australian Company Number (ACN) or other entity identifier(s)

Australian Business Number (ABN)

Registered for GST?
Yes/No
Date from which GST registration was effective

Registered office (physical/postal)

Relevant business place (if different)

Telephone (General)

Fax (General)

E-mail (General)


B(b)	Who represents the Grantee? 
Relates to clause 6.1(a) [Liaison].

Grantee's representative (name)

Position 

Postal/physical address(es)

Business hours telephone

Mobile

Fax

E-mail


B(c)	Are Specified Personnel required?
Relates to clause 8 [Specified Personnel].
The Personnel listed below are Specified Personnel for purposes of this Agreement:

Full legal name of person

Legal identity (eg, individual, company, partnership etc)

Trading or business name

Any relevant qualifications, skills or licences

Nature of work to be performed under this Agreement

OR 

(1) There are no Specified Personnel for this Agreement.
Part C.	How is  DVA represented?
C(a)	Details of Australian Government entities
Relates to clauses 1.2 [Parties and Starting Date] and 19.1 [Definitions: "DVA"].

(1) The undertaking of the Project is  required by the:

* Repatriation Commission - a body corporate continued in existence under the Veterans' Entitlements Act 1986 (VEA); 
* Military Rehabilitation and Compensation Commission - a Commonwealth body corporate established by the Military Rehabilitation and Compensation Act 2004 (MRCA); and
* Commonwealth of Australia as represented by the Department of Veterans' Affairs, which, among other matters, assists the Repatriation Commission, and the Military Rehabilitation and Compensation Commission with the administration of their respective Acts.

(2) These bodies have the Australian Business Number (ABN) of 23 964 290 824 and are described collectively as DVA. 

C(b)	Who represents  DVA as a delegate or for liaison?
Relates to clause 6.1(a) [Liaison], 7.1 [Notices] and 19.1 [Definitions: "Delegate" and "Liaison Person"].

Delegate (Name)

Position

Address

Postal Address

Telephone (business hours)

Fax

Mobile

E-mail


Liaison Person (Name)

Position

Address

Postal Address

Telephone (business hours)

Fax

Mobile

E-mail

Part D. Project and Timing 
       Relates to clause 2.1 (a) [Project, Timing and Standards].

Part E. Deliverables 
       Relates to clause 2.1 (b) [Deliverables].

* XXXX

-  FINANCE -  
Part F. Payment of Grant 
       Relates to clause 3.1  [Grant Payment and Assistance].
Part G. Invoices for GST purposes 
       Relates to clause 5 [GST Invoice Requirements].

Where a Tax Invoice to be issued by the Grantee
Where DVA shall issue a Recipient Created Tax Invoice (RCTI) Part H. Assistance 
       Relates to clause 3.3 [Grant Payment and Assistance].
Part I. Audit
       Relates to clause 4 [Audit and Monitoring].		
-  STANDARDS -
Part J. Quality Standards 
       Relates to clause 2.1 (c) [Project, Timing and Standards].
Part K. Communications and Dispute Resolution
Relates to clause 6 [Liaison], clause 7 [Notices], clause 8 [Specified Personnel] and clause 10 [Dispute Resolution]
Part L. Accountability and Risk Management
Relates to clause 9 [Accountability] and clause 14 [Indemnity and Insurance]
Part M. Managing Assets and Project Material 

Part N. Intellectual Property Ownership and Rights 
       Relates to clause 12. [Intellectual Property Management].
Part O. Applicable Law
       Relates to clause 18.2 [Interpretation, Variation and Severability].
1.    Parties and Starting Date2.    Project, Timing and Standards
3.    Grant Payment and Assistance
4.    Audit and Monitoring

5.    GST Invoice RequirementsFor the purposes of a RCTI for this Grant: 
6.    Liaison
7.    Notices
8.    Specified Personnel
9.    Accountability
9.4	In clauses 9.2 and 9.3, "Accountability Personnel" means an individual performing statutory or Parliamentary functions, including as authorised by the Auditor-General, the Ombudsman, the National Archives of Australia, the Privacy Commissioner, Parliament, or a Parliamentary Committee.
10.  Dispute Resolution 
11.  Property and Assets
12.  Intellectual Property Management
13.  Privacy and Confidentiality 
13.3	In clause 13.2, the phrase "confidential information":
(a)	includes any information (created or existing in any form) -
* considered confidential by its nature, at Law, 
* designated confidential by DVA, or 
* that the Grantee knows, or ought to know, is confidential; 
                   and
(b)	excludes information that has no restriction on its use, development, exploitation or disclosure and that, without breaching Law (including any fiduciary duty) or this Agreement -
* is, or becomes, public knowledge, or
* the Grantee substantiates, in writing, that it possesses, 
        obtained or created independently and in good faith.
14.  Indemnity and Insurance
15.  Conflict of Interest
16.  No Employee, Partner or Agent Status
17.  Default
(a) 10 working days; or
(b) any other period to which the parties agree, including as agreed under Part L [Accountability and Risk Management] in relation to the relevant form of default.
18.  Interpretation, Variation and Severability

18.3	This Agreement:
(a)	constitutes the parties' entire understanding, superseding oral or written communications, negotiations or arrangements about the purpose of the Grant;
(b) can be varied only in writing signed by the parties' authorised representatives;
(c) where the variation is to the purpose of the Grant, has first been approved by the Minister; and
(d)  is not to be taken to imply any future obligation on DVA for a further grant to the Grantee beyond the requirements in this Agreement.
18.4	No variation to or substitution of the Grantee can be made for the purposes of a Grant unless approval for the change has first been obtained from the Minister.
18.5	In this Agreement, unless the contrary intention appears, references to:
(a)	the singular includes the plural and vice versa;
(b)	a gender includes male (eg, 'he'), female (eg, 'she') or indefinite (eg, 'it'); and
(c) a person includes a partnership, body corporate or body politic.
18.6	In this Agreement::
(a)	the exercise of any right or power by DVA does not derogate from its other rights or powers under this Agreement, under the Law or, where relevant, regarding future uses of that right or power,
(b)	examples after the word 'including' do not limit the relevant meaning; and
(c)	reference to any "potential" occurrence includes an actual occurrence.
18.7	Clauses that survive the expiration or termination of this Agreement are clause 9 [Accountability], clause 10 [Dispute Resolution], clause 13 [Privacy and confidentiality], clause 14 [Indemnity and Insurance], this clause 18 and clause 19 [Definitions].

19.  Definitions
19.1	In this Agreement, unless the contrary intention appears:

Agreement
Means this document, including the clauses and the information in the Signatures Page and the Schedule, plus any Attachments.
Assets
Means any Material purchased or resulting from the conduct of the Project as defined in Part D [Project and Timing] for which particular accounting or management requirements apply as specified there.
Claim
Includes potential claim, suit, demand, action or proceeding from any person.
Commonwealth
Means the Commonwealth of Australia..
Delegate
Means the individual with the position  described in Part C (b) [DVA's Details] or as the Secretary nominates. .
DVA
Means the Commonwealth(as represented by and acting through the Department of Veterans' Affairs, including its Personnel) as well as the Repatriation Commission and its Personnel and the Military Compensation and Rehabilitation Commission and its Personnel.
DVA Material
Means Material that the Commonwealth, including DVA provides under this Agreement or that the Grantee obtains from DVA, or Material copied or derived from the Material provided or obtained.
End Date
Means the date when both the Project and obligations under the Grant have been completed or an earlier date where the Agreement has been terminated .  
Existing Material
Means Material existing before the Starting Date or other Material specified under clause 12 [Intellectual Property Management].
Financial Year
Means the financial year of the Grantee.
Grant
Means the amount of financial assistance payable to the Grantee as specified in Part F [Payment of Grant]. 
Grantee
Means the organisation for which the financial assistance has been approved and includes its Personnel, and specific references to the Grantee's Personnel do not limit other references to the Grantee only.
GST
Means the Goods and Services Tax under A New Tax System (Goods and Services Tax) Act 1999.
Intellectual Property
Includes, regarding in any country in the world and including the ability to register these rights (where applicable):
(a) patents and plant varieties, 
(b) trademarks (including service marks), design rights, business names and official emblems and crests,
  (c) copyright (including neighbouring rights), circuit layouts, and  confidential information (including trade secrets and know how) and l (d) other rights resulting from industrial, scientific, literary or artistic intellectual activity. .
Law
Includes any relevant:
(a) legislation (whether primary or delegated, from any Australian government, eg Commonwealth, State, Territory or local) and 
(b) judicial ruling (including under the common law or the rules of equity).

Liaison Person
Means the individual with the position described in Part C(b) [Who represents DVA?] or as the Delegate nominates.
Loss
Includes any damage, liability or loss, injury or death, economic loss and  legal costs or expenses on a solicitor/own client basis.
Material
Means any object ( including any goods,    equipment and deliverables), record (including as defined under the Archives Act 1983) document, software, information or subject matter in which Intellectual Property Rights subsist..
Military Rehabilitation and Compensation Commission
Means the body corporate established by the Military Rehabilitation Compensation Act 2004 (MRCA) or any other government agency that carries out functions equivalent to the Military Rehabilitation and Compensation Commission.
Personnel
Includes a party's officer, partner,  employee, agent, volunteer, bailee, contractor,  subcontractor,
Executor, administrator, substitute, successor, licensee or assignee but -  when applied to one party - does not include the other party or that other party's  Personnel.
Project
Means the Project approved by the Minister and described in Part D [Project and Timing] and provided through clause 2 [Project, Timing and Standards].
Project Material
Means all Material:
(a) brought into existence for this Agreement, or
(b) incorporated in, supplied or required to be supplied along with the Material referred to in paragraph (a), or
(c) copied or derived from Material referred to in paragraphs (a) or (b)
including Material described in Part E [Deliverables].
Repatriation Commission
Means the body corporate continued in existence by the Veterans' Entitlements Act 1986 or any other government agency that carries out functions equivalent to what was the Repatriation Commission at the Starting Date.
Secretary
Means the individual performing the duties of Secretary to DVA or any individual the  Secretary designates  in writing in relation to  this Agreement.
Signatures Page
Means the page signed by the parties to form this Agreement as from the Starting Date.
Specified Personnel
Means Personnel of the Grantee specified under clause 8 [Specified Personnel].
Starting Date
Means the date on which the parties intended this Agreement to start as stated on the Signatures Page.

THE SIGNATURES PAGE

The parties have entered this Agreement on the Starting Date of: ____/____/________

Signed by:

Name of the Grantee:


(To be signed by 2 signatories representing the Grantee, unless the Grantee is an individual)

Signatory 1 Name:
Please print

Position:
Please print

Signature and date:

	


	


	

Witnessed by:
Name:
Please print
Signature and date:


	

	

Signatory 2 Name:
Please print

Position:
Please print

Signature and date:

	


	


	

Witnessed by:
Name:
Please print
Signature and date:


	

	

Signed for and on behalf of:

The Commonwealth as represented by the Department of Veterans' Affairs 


Name:

Position:

Signature and date:

...........................................................................

	
Witnessed by:
Name:
Please print
Signature and date:


	

	


- Draft Only -




		

_____________________________________________________________________
Version: June 2004 		page ii

_____________________________________________________________________
Version: June2004		page15


AGREEMENT - CASUAL STAFF

Dated 

Between University of Technology, Sydney of 1 Broadway Ultimo NSW 2007 (ABN 77 257 686 961) ("the University")

and 							         ("the Staff Member") 	

1.	INTRODUCTION
a)	The Staff Member is employed by the University under a contract of employment.
b)	The University has decided to offer to the Staff Member an opportunity to enter into a salary packaging arrangement.  This is an arrangement under which certain staff members of the University agree contractually to forego the remuneration that they would otherwise receive as salary or wages, in return for the University making superannuation contributions of the same value to a superannuation fund of the staff members' choice.  
c)	The Staff Member accepts the University's offer.
d)	The University and the Staff Member agree to be bound by this Agreement on the following terms and conditions.
2.	DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATIONS
In this Agreement unless the context indicates to the contrary:
2.1 "Salary package" includes salary and benefits that the Staff Member chooses to fund through a salary packaging arrangement.
2.2 "Superannuation Benefit" means the superannuation contributions which, on request of the Staff Member, are funded from the Staff Member's salary as part of a salary packaging arrangement.
2.3 "Agreement" means this salary packaging agreement.
2.4 "Salary" means salary payable pursuant to the Employment Contract, subject to taxation and other lawful deductions.
2.5  "Employment Contract" means the contract of employment between the University and the Staff Member
2.6 References to
a) parts, clauses, schedules, exhibits and annexures refer those in this Agreement;
b) including, includes or include must be read as if  followed by "without limitation";
c) a reference to a Party is to a party to this Agreement;
d) a Party includes that Party's executors, administrators, substitutes, successors and permitted assigns;
e) a  gender includes all genders;



f) legislation or a provision of legislation or to any other regulatory document (including University Rules, policies and guidelines) includes a modification, amendment, consolidation or re-enactment of it, a provision substituted for it and a regulation or statutory instrument issued under it; and a document is a reference to a document as amended, varied, supplemented, novated or replaced from time to time except to the extent prohibited by this Agreement.

2.7 Where an expression is defined, any other part of speech or grammatical form of that expression has a corresponding meaning;
2.8 The singular includes the plural and vice-versa;
2.9 Headings do not affect the interpretation of this Agreement;
2.10 In the interpretation of this Agreement, no rule of interpretation applies to the disadvantage of a Party on the basis that it put forward this Agreement or any part of it;
2.11 This Agreement shall be read in conjunction with the Employment Contract and to the extent of any inconsistency will be read in preference to the Employment Contract;
2.12 Any Collective Agreement binding on the University and Staff Member shall take precedence to the extent of any inconsistency with this Agreement.
3.	APPLICABLE LAW
4.	CONDITION PRECEDENT
This Agreement is conditional upon the Staff Member signing it and agreeing to be bound by its terms.
5.	SALARY PACKAGING TERMS
6.	LEGISLATIVE CHANGES7.	STAFF MEMBER'S OBLIGATIONS AND RESPONSIBILITIES
8.	PROVISION OF INFORMATION
10.	EFFECT OF TERMINATION
11.	CONFIDENTIALITY
12.	CONSIDERATION
13.	VARIATION

WEST GIPPSLAND REGIONAL
 LIBRARY CORPORATION 
AGREEMENT

THIS AGREEMENT is made on _______________________________  2005.



BETWEEN:		Bass Coast Shire Council, established as a body corporate
		Under an Order in Council made pursuant to the Local
		Government Act 1989, of Baillieu, Wonthaggi, 
		Baw Baw Shire Council, established as a body corporate under
		an Order in Council made pursuant to the Local Government
		Act 1989, Civic Place, Warragul and
		South Gippsland Shire Council, established as a body corporate
		Under an Order in Council made pursuant to the Local Government Act 
		1989, of Smith Street, Leongatha.

				RECITALS:

A.	The Councils desire to revise an Agreement dated 11th December 1995, which formed a regional library to service the area comprising their municipal districts pursuant to section 196 of the Local Government Act 1989.

B.	The Councils have agreed on the assets they will provide for the use of, or, transfer to the   
	ownership of, the Regional Library.

C.	The Councils have agreed to contribute certain sums of money annually for the purposes of
	the Regional Library.


AGREEMENT
       1.	DEFINITIONS
		
		In the interpretation of this Agreement, including the Recitals, except where the context
		otherwise requires-

		(a)	the following words shall have the following meaning-

			"Act" means the Local Government Act 1989;
	
			"Chief Executive Officer" means the person appointed in accordance with the 
			 Act;

			"Board" means the governing body of the Regional Library established under
			 clause 3.1;

			"Council" means a party to this Agreement;

			"Local Law" means a Local Law made in accordance with Part 5 of the Act;

			"Minister" means the Victorian Government Minister responsible for 
        administering the Local Government Act 1989;
       
       
       "Regional Library" means the regional library corporation established under
        this Agreement;
       
       
       
2. CREATION OF THE REGIONAL LIBRARY

3. MEMBERSHIP OF THE BOARD
4. PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD


5. CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER

6.	EQUITY AND OPERATING COSTS
Clauses 6.5 and 6.6, be responsible for its own operating costs.

7.	STRATEGIC PLANNING
8.	ANNUAL BUDGET


9.	ANNUAL FINANCIAL CONTRIBUTIONS

       10.	ANNUAL REPORTING AND ACCOUNTS

11.	ENTRY AND EXIT OF PARTIES

        12.	DISSOLUTION OF REGIONAL LIBRARY
      13.	DISPUTE RESOLUTION
14.	AGREEMENT AMENDMENT

		An amendment to this Agreement has no effect unless it is -

(a) in writing and signed by all parties to the Agreement; and

(b) approved by the Minister by notice published in the Government Gazette.

15.	AGREEMENT REVIEW

		The parties shall, together with the Board, review the operations of this 
		Agreement at least once every five years.

16.	CONDITIONS PRECEDENT

		This Agreement has no effect as between the parties unless it is approved by 
		the Minister in accordance with section 196(2) of the Act.

		Executed as an Agreement.





IN WITNESS WHEREOF


in accordance with a Resolution of the Bass Coast Shire Council made on

THE COMMON SEAL of the Bass Coast Shire Council 
Was hereunto affixed on in the presence of -







 in accordance with a Resolution of the Baw Baw Shire Council made on

THE COMMON SEAL of the Baw Baw Shire Council 
Was hereunto affixed on in the presence of -








in accordance with a Resolution of the South Gippsland Shire Council made on

THE COMMON SEAL of the South Gippsland Shire Council
Was hereunto affixed on in the presence of -









SCHEDULE 1
STATEMENT OF COUNCIL ASSETS

BASS COAST SHIRE COUNCIL

*	Library Building, Thompson Avenue, COWES
*	Library Building, Watt Street, WONTHAGGI
*	Library Building, A'Beckett Street, INVERLOCH
*	Mobile Library Depot and Record Repository, Factory A, 
	Lot 5 Inverloch Road, WONTHAGGI


BAW BAW SHIRE COUNCIL

*	Library Building, 75 Victoria Street, WARRAGUL
*	Library Building, Princes Way, DROUIN
*	Library Building, Powelltown Road, NOOJEE
*	1 Portable Office (IFCO), Council Depot, WARRAGUL
*	Mobile Library Depot, WARRAGUL

SOUTH GIPPSLAND SHIRE COUNCIL

*	Library Building, 2 Smith Street, LEONGATHA
*	Library Building, Commercial Street, KORUMBURRA
*	Library Building, Ridgway, MIRBOO NORTH
*	Library Building, Main Road, POOWONG
*	Library Building, Main Street, FOSTER
*	Mobile Library Depot, FOSTER



WGRLC Agreement	- 1 -


CONFIDENTIALITY AGREEMENT


BETWEEN




XCLIENTX

XABNX



and



WESTEND INDUSTRIES PTY LTD

ABN 47 001 020 015



















-2-

CONFIDENTIALITY AGREEMENT


THIS AGREEMENT is made the             day of                                                200_____.


BETWEEN:


XCLIENTX    XABNX 
of XADDRESSX. &/or affiliated companies 

and

WESTEND INDUSTRIES PTY LTD  ABN 47 001 020 015
Of Corner Merrylands and Holroyd Roads Merrylands NSW 2160. &/or affiliated companies ("Westend")
WHEREAS:
A.	The parties are contemplating entering into or participating in the Transactions.

B. In the course of the Transactions, either party may be making available to the other party, and that other party may learn of, certain of the Information which the first party wishes, or is required by virtue of Business Agreements to keep confidential.
WHEREBY IT IS AGREED as follows:
1		    DEFINITIONS
In the interpretation of this Agreement, including the Recitals, unless the context otherwise requires:-
"Business Agreements" means manufacturing, marketing, distribution agreements or any other agreements either existing now or which are entered into after the Date of Execution to which either 
-3-
party is a party whereby that party agrees, amongst other 
things not to disclose or supply any Information to Third Parties save for the purposes described in the Business Agreements.
"Agreement" means this deed as amended by the Parties from time to time pursuant to the terms herein;
"Business Day" means that time between the hours of 9.OOam to 4.3Opm Monday to Friday inclusive as applicable to each party's time zone but excluding public holidays;
"Date of Execution" means the date on which the last of the Parties executes this Agreement;
"Information" means all information including, but not limited to, data, reports (technical or otherwise), designs, drawings, notes, records, copies, assessments, financial statements and any other financial information, advises disclosed by, or on behalf of, either party to the other party, both prior to and in the course of the Transactions;
"Party" means "XXXX" or "Westend" and "Parties" is a reference to both of them;
"Transactions" means the business transactions being contemplated between the parties, summarised in the First Schedule, and all transactions associated or consequential thereto.

2	INTERPRETATION
	In the interpretation of this Agreement, including the Recitals, unless the context otherwise requires:
	2.1	Words importing the singular shall include the plural and vice versa and words importing gender shall include all genders.
	2.2	Words importing persons shall include a firm, company, corporation, authority, incorporated or unincorporated association, syndicate, joint venture or other entity whether incorporated or not.
2.3	A reference to any act or regulation shall include a reference to any act or regulation amending or in substitution for or in lieu of that act or regulation.
-4-
2.4	The headings shall not form part of this Agreement and shall not be relevant to its interpretation.
2.5	References to Clauses, Sub-clauses, Paragraphs, Schedules and Recitals are references to clauses, sub-clauses, paragraphs, schedules and recitals of this Agreement.
2.6	Where a word or expression is defined in this Agreement, other grammatical forms of that word or expression used in this Agreement bear a corresponding meaning.
2.7	An agreement, representation or warranty in favour of two or more persons is for the benefit of them jointly and severally. If two or more persons undertake an obligation or give any warranty, they shall be bound thereby jointly and severally.
2.8	A reference to a Party includes that Party's successors and permitted assigns.
2.9 Wherever reference is made in this Agreement to a covenant or agreement contained in this Agreement the same shall (subject to the provisions of this Agreement) be deemed to extend to and include all covenants, agreements, conditions and provisions implied in this Agreement by virtue of any statute.

3	THE INFORMATION




-5-

on terms at least as strict as those provided in this Agreement.
4	USE OF INFORMATION
5	RETURN OF THE INFORMATION
For the purpose of this Clause, "materials" means both originals and copies howsoever recorded or stored of all materials, notes, documents, drawings, writings, papers and all other things which contain, disclose or set out the Information or any part thereof, and includes those materials, notes, documents, drawings, writings, papers and other things which are made available by one party to the other party.

- 6 -
6       OWNERSHIP OF THE INFORMATION
7        GENERAL KNOWLEDGE

8        RELEASE



-7-
9 NOTICES
	10	RELATIONSHIP OF PARTIES12      VARIATION
13      SEVERANCE

14      ENTIRE AGREEMENT
15     GOVERNING LAW-9-

EXECUTED by the Parties as a Deed on the date hereof


XCLIENTX
XABNX

DIRECTOR                                                                            
NAME (Please Print) ........................................................................                                                             


SIGNED: ................................................ Date:-     /    /2001


in the presence of:


............................................................................. Date:-     /    /2001
Witness Signature


.............................................................................
Witness Name




WESTEND INDUSTRIES PTY LTD
ABN 47 001 020 015


DIRECTOR                                                                            
NAME (Please Print) ........................................................................                                                             


SIGNED: ................................................ Date:-     /    /2001


in the presence of:


............................................................................. Date:-     /    /2001
Witness Signature


.............................................................................
Witness Name



-10-

FIRST SCHEDULE


Summary of the Transactions


1.0 All Information concerning the manufacturing (whether by "XXXX" or any other person), marketing and distribution of any product or products marketed and distributed (and manufactured if applicable) by "XXXX" and any other business activity in which "XXXX" may be involved but not to include material handling or application equipment.

2.0 All Information concerning the manufacturing (whether by "Westend" or any other person), marketing and distribution of any product or products marketed and distributed (and manufactured if applicable) by "Westend" and any other business activity in which "Westend" may be involved but not to include cementitious mix designs, formulations or any product or process relating to the production thereof.


3.0 In the event that during the course of 'Westend' addressing the client's XCLIENTX needs or requirements, 'Westend' may develop designs, concepts or procedures of a novel nature (novelties), the ownership of said (novelties) remains with 'Westend'. The application or use of all or part of such 'novelties' in the production of or solutions for XCLIENTX does not infer transfer of ownership, the ownership of said 'novelties' remains with 'Westend'.

CLINICAL TRIAL AGREEMENT
INVESTIGATOR-INITIATED MULTI-CENTRE STUDY

AGREEMENT dated the       day of                                20

BETWEEN:	ALFRED HEALTH ABN 27 318 956 319 a body corporate established under the Health Services Act 1988 (Vic) of 55 Commercial Road, Melbourne 3004, Victoria
("Coordinating Centre")

AND:	The institution named in Item 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement ("Participating Centre")

RECITALS

A. The Coordinating Centre is coordinating the Study.

B. A number of organisations have agreed to participate in the Study.

C. The Participating Centre is one such organisation.

D. The Participating Centre has agreed to make available the Principal Investigator for the Study.

E. This document ("Agreement") sets out the responsibilities of each party in the conduct of the Study.

OPERATIVE PART

1.	DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATION


1.1 Definitions
 

Chief Investigator means the person named in Item 3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement with overall responsibility for the Study at the Coordinating Centre.

Confidential Information means information of the parties that is secret and confidential and includes the Protocol, other information pertaining to this Agreement, the operation of the parties and their activities, but does not include information:

(a)	already possessed by the receiving party prior to receipt from the disclosing party, other than through prior disclosure by the disclosing party, as evidenced by the receiving party's business records;
(b)	published or available to the general public otherwise than through a breach of this agreement;
(c)	obtained by the receiving party from a third party with a valid right to disclose it, provided that said third party is not under a confidentiality obligation to the disclosing party; or
(d)	independently developed by employees, agents or consultants of the receiving party who had no knowledge of or access to the disclosing party's information, as evidenced by the receiving party's business records.
Executive Committee means the executive committee of the Study made up of the Study Chairmen, the Study Project Manager, the data manager and four representatives of the Steering Committee.

Good Clinical Practice Guidelines means International Conference on Harmonisation Harmonised Tripartite Agreement Guideline for Good Clinical Practice. 1996 which is available on TGA website: http://www.health.gov.au/tga/docs/html/ich13595.htm.

HREC means the Human Research Ethics Committee at the Participating Centre.

Intellectual Property means all forms of intellectual property including patents, petty patents, patentable inventions, know-how, trade marks (whether registered or unregistered), copyright, registered and registrable designs, Confidential Information, circuit layout rights, applications for registration of any of the foregoing and rights to apply for registration of any of the foregoing.

Other Participating Centres means those organizations, other than the Participating Centre, which are participating in the Study.

Principal Publications means those publications containing the primary Study results.

Principal Investigator means the chief researcher responsible for the performance of the Study at the Participating Centre, being the person named in Item 4 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.

Protocol means the Study protocol, a copy of which has been issued to the Principal Investigators prior to the date of this agreement.

Regulatory Guidelines means Australian regulatory issues available at TGA website: http//www.health.gov.au/tga/docs/html/clintrials.htm.

Research Coordinator means the person appointed at the relevant Participating Centre to manage the Study with the Principal Investigators at that Participating Centre.

Steering Committee means the Steering committee of the Study made up of the Study Project Manager and all of the site Principal Investigators.
Study means the study referred to in Item 2 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement to be conducted as described in the Protocol.


1.2 Interpretation

1.2.1 Any reference in this Agreement to "dollars" or "$" means Australian dollars.

1.2.2 The references to Good Clinical Practice Guidelines in this Agreement are a reference to National Health and Medical Research Council guidelines (available at NHMRC website: http://www.health.gov.au/nhmrc/issues/researchethics.htm).

1.2.3 Any reference in this Agreement to "day" means a calendar day.

1.2.4 Words (including words defined in this Agreement) denoting the singular number shall include the plural and vice versa

2.	TERMS OF AGREEMENT & RESPONSIBILITIES


3.	LIABILITY

4.	PAYMENT FOR CLINICAL TRIAL PERFORMANCE


5.	PUBLICATIONS, CONFIDENTIALITY AND PRIVACY


6. PUBLICATION AND AUTHORSHIP

7.	INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS


8.	DATA

9.	TERMINATION
10.	DISPUTE RESOLUTION


11.	GENERAL


Executed as an agreement

Signed for and on behalf of	)
ALFRED HEALTH ABN 27 318 956 319	)
	)..................................................
by .................................................	)   Signature of authorised officer





Signed for and on behalf of	)
[Insert corporate name of 	)
Participating Centre]	)
	)..................................................
by .................................................	)   Signature of authorised officer





Acknowledged by ................................, 	) ..................................................
the Principal Investigator	) Signature of Principal Investigator


Schedule 1
Item 1
The Institution

Item 2
The Study

Item 3
Chief Investigator

Item 4
Principal Investigator



Schedule 2 - Study Budget



2


CONFIDENTIALITY AGREEMENT


BETWEEN: 	COOPERATIVE RESEARCH CENTRE FOR DIAGNOSTICS, 5th Floor, Q Block, Queensland University of Technology, 2 George Street, Brisbane, Queensland 4000, Australia.   ("CDx")

AND:		NAME (Full Street Address).   ("NAME")

BACKGROUND: 

A.	CDx owns or holds an interest in: 

(a)	a certain trademark or trademarks referred to in this Agreement;

(b)	patent rights in certain technology  referred to in this Agreement; and

(c)	certain information in relation to the technology, the trade mark and the patent rights in the technology.

B.	NAME owns or holds an interest in:

(a)	a certain trademark or trademarks referred to in this Agreement;

(b)	patent rights in certain technology  referred to in this Agreement; and

(c)	certain information in relation to the technology, the trade mark and the patent rights in the technology.

C.	Both CDx and NAME wish to discuss mutually beneficial technology development projects and proposals.

D.	Each of CDx and NAME have therefore agreed to disclose certain information to the other in respect of their technology, the trademarks and the patent rights in the technology subject to the terms of this Agreement.


THE PARTIES NOW EACH AGREE AND COVENANT AS FOLLOWS:

     2.	Confidentiality
to any other person within 5 years of the date of this Confidentiality Agreement.  3.	Return of Confidential Information
      4.	Governing Law
     5.	Definitions
In this Agreement, unless the context requires otherwise:

"Confidential Information" of a party means all concepts, ideas, technical and other information and know-how, including all information and know-how in any eye or machine readable or other format, that is owned or possessed by the party in respect of or incidental to its:

(a) Business dealings or operations; 
(b) Patent Rights; 
(c) Technology; and 
(d) Trademarks,

and any other information disclosed or given to the Recipient by the Discloser and its employees or agents which is declared by the Discloser (at the time of disclosure or shortly thereafter) to be Confidential Information;

"Discloser" means, in relation to any Confidential Information that is transferred from one party to the other party, that party which transfers, or causes to be transferred, the Confidential Information;

"Intellectual Property" means in relation to either party, all intellectual and industrial property in and to the Technology of that party and that party's Confidential Information, including without limitation the Trademarks, the Patent Rights, all copyright, designs and circuit layouts applying in respect of the Technology for the full period of those rights, including all extensions and renewals, and including all rights to registration (if any) of any of those rights or interests;

"Patent Rights" means in relation to either party, the rights of that party in any patent which it applies for, obtains or is entitled to apply for or obtain anywhere in the world at any time in respect of its Technology or any part of it;

"Recipient" means, in relation to any Confidential Information that is transferred from one party to the other party, the party to this Agreement to which the Confidential Information is transferred;

"Technology" means in relation to each party the respective technologies described in Schedule A, together with all additions, improvements, modifications and adaptations to the Technology, to the extent disclosed; and

"Trademarks" means in relation to either party, the trademarks for which that party applies, obtains, or intends to or is entitled to apply or obtain anywhere in the world at any time in respect of that party's Technology or any part of it.


EXECUTED by the parties as an Agreement:



SIGNED for and on behalf of
COOPERATIVE RESEARCH CENTRE FOR DIAGNOSTICS by its duly authorised representative in the presence of:


..........................................................                                                    
Witness (Sign)


..........................................................
  Print Name of Witness






.....................................................................
Representative (Sign)


.....................................................................
Print Name of Representative


.....................................................................
Position of Representative

.....................................................................
Date




SIGNED for and on behalf of	
NAME
by its duly authorised representative 
in the presence of:


		.......................................................
Witness (Sign)                                                          Represenaitive (Sign)
                                                                        
			......     
Print Name of Witness                                             Print Name of Representative

                                                                            ..............................................................                                                                                
                                                                                 Position of Representative

                                                                                 ........................................................
                                                                                 Date





                                                                                


SCHEDULE A



CDx's Technology: 




NAME's Technology:

41186849/NEWFILE/EMJ

CDx 2 Way CDA Proforma.doc 11/10/03

41186849/NEWFILE/EMJ

41186849/NEWFILE/EMJ

41186849/NEWFILE/EMJ

41186849/NEWFILE/EMJ


Date          /          /2008


Escape Today Subscription Agreement





Escape Today Pty Ltd
ABN 42 271 885 337
and



The Subscriber named in item 1 of the Schedule 








Table of Contents

1.	DEFINITIONS	2
2.	TERMS OF SUPPLY	2
2.1	Supply of Services	2
2.2	Term of Agreement	2
2.3	Escape Today's Specific Responsibilities	2
2.4	Subscriber's Specific Responsibilities	2
3.	PAYMENT	2
3.1	Price of Subscription	2
3.2	Payment for Services	2
3.3	Method of Payment	2
3.4	Fee Reviews	2
4.	GST	2
4.1	GST Act	2
4.2	Exclusive of GST	2
4.3	Recipient must pay	2
4.4	Tax Invoice	2
5.	INSURANCE	2
5.1	Responsibility of Subscriber	2
6.	INDEMNITY AND WARRANTY	2
6.1	Indemnity	2
6.2	Warranty	2
7.	LIMITATIONS OF ESCAPE TODAY'S LIABILITY	2
7.1	Effect of Legislation	2
7.2	Exclusion of Implied Warranties	2
7.3	General Exclusion of Liability	2
7.4	General Limitation of Liability	2
7.5	Limitation of Liability	2
7.6	Consequential Losses	2
8.	TERMINATION	2
8.1	Immediate Termination	2
8.2	Notice of Default	2
8.3	Failure to Rectify Default	2
8.4	Termination Without Reason	2
9.	CONFIDENTIALITY	2
9.1	Use of Information	2
9.2	Continuing Obligations	2
10.	INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS	2
10.1	Ownership	2
10.2	Licence of Intellectual Property Rights	2
10.3	Acknowledgment of Ownership	2
11.	NOTICES	2
11.1	Service of Notice	2
11.2	Particulars for Service	2
11.3	Time of Service	2
12.	GENERAL	2
12.1	Amendment	2
12.2	Entire Understanding	2
12.3	Further Assurance	2
12.4	Legal Costs and Expenses	2
12.5	Waiver and Exercise of Rights	2
13.	INTERPRETATION	2
13.1	Governing Law and Jurisdiction	2
13.2	Joint and Several	2
13.3	Legislation	2
13.4	This Document, Clauses and Headings	2
13.5	Severance	2
13.6	Counterparts	2
13.7	Currency	2
13.8	Business Day	2
13.9	Number and Gender	2
13.10	Property	2
13.11	Personal Knowledge	2
SCHEDULE 1	2
SCHEDULE 2	2


Escape Today Subscription Agreement
DATE           /          /2008
BETWEEN
ESCAPE TODAY PTY LTD ABN 42 271 885 337 
of PO Box 402, St Kilda VIC 3182
(Escape Today)
AND
	THE SUBSCRIBER NAMED IN ITEM 1 OF THE SCHEDULE
 (Subscriber)
RECITALS
A. Escape Today is a virtual service delivered through the internet and via a weekly online newsletter to businesses or organisations and their employees.
B. Escape Today's Service is designed to address specific workplace issues resulting in improved productivity, greater employee satisfaction, reduced staff turnover and lower absenteeism.
C. The Subscriber wishes to Subscribe to Escape Today so that it may access the Employer Online Portal and provide its Employees with access to t he Customer Online Portal. 
D. Upon payment of the agreed fees, Escape Today agrees to provide the Escape Today Online Portal and Service Categories to the Subscriber on the terms and conditions set out in this Agreement. 
THE PARTIES AGREE

1. DEFINITIONS
In this document unless expressed or implied to the contrary:
Additional Services means the services which may be provided by Escape Today to the Subscriber in addition to the Escape Today Services: 
a)	Workplace Diagnostics: to identify the specific objectives sought for the Subscriber's team or organisation in regards to Escape Today, including an understanding of the issues and challenges;
b)	Program Development: to establish a supporting program of events and initiatives that leverages the knowledge and resources of Escape Today or integrates Escape Today into the Subscriber's existing programme of initiatives;
c)	Implementation Plan: to develop a rollout approach to launch Escape Today in the workplace;
d)	Post Implementation Review: to evaluate the success of the program over time, and identify opportunities for improvement.
Agreement means this document as executed by the parties on the commencement date specified in item 1 of the Schedule.
Business Day means Monday to Friday excluding public holidays in Victoria.
Customer means an officer, employee, or subcontractor of a Subscriber, or any individual enquiring about the Services offered by the Provider via the Subscriber's subscription.
Escape Today's Service means the Service provided by Escape Today to the Subscriber consisting of a range of features to include:
a)	Online portal
b)	Employers' online discussion forum
c)	Monthly Employers newsletter
d)	Reference Resources
e)	Annual Online employee needs assessment
f)	Personalised portal for each employee incorporating employees' brand or logo
g)	Access to quality service providers
h)	Integrated reporting capabilities 
Escape Today means Escape Today Pty Ltd ABN 42 271 885 337.
Force Majeure means any act, omission or circumstance relied on by a party over which that party could not reasonably have exercised control.
Intellectual Property means all Intellectual Property Rights (whether or not registered including all applications and the right to apply for registration) which is owned by or licensed to Escape Today including, without limitation:
(a)	any trade marks, service marks, trade names, domain names, brands and company names, trade secrets and copyright works, URL's, drawings, discoveries, inventions, improvements, technical data, formulae, computer programs, software, know-how, logos, symbols and similar industrial or intellectual property rights;
(b)	all patents, patent applications, registered designs and unregistered design rights;
(c)	all client lists and other client related information; and
(d)	all Confidential Information of Escape Today and its stakeholders .
Intellectual Property Rights means all and any patents, patent applications, trade marks, service marks, trade names, domain names, registered designs, unregistered design rights, copyrights, know how, trade secrets and rights in confidential information, URLs and all and any other intellectual property rights, whether registered or unregistered, and including all applications and rights to apply for any of the same.
Liabilities include all liabilities (whether actual, contingent or prospective), losses, damages, costs and expenses of whatever description.
Online Portal means the interactive method by which Escape Today provides the Escape Today Services by advertising the Providers, and Customers and Employers are able to browse Escape Today's Service Categories. 
Provider means a provider of activities and other services which may be arranged via the Escape Today Services.
Provider's Service means the corporate and individual activity service which may be accessed via the Escape Today Services. 
Service Categories means the packages offered by Escape Today, namely:
a)	Customer Portal: a range of services offered including last minute promotions (1-2 days in advance), focusing on taking time out of the day to relax; and
b)	Employer Portal: Delivers services to address specific workplace issues resulting in improved productivity, greater employee satisfaction, reduced staff turnover and lower absenteeism .
Subscriber means a Subscriber to Escape Today's Services, including employers of the Customers, being an independent entity from Escape Today 
Subscription means the relationship entered into with Escape Today after payment of the Fees to Escape Today.

2. TERMS OF SUPPLY
2.1 Supply of Services
By signing this agreement the Parties agree:
2.2 Term of Agreement
2.2.1 This Agreement commences on the date specified in item 1 of Schedule 1.
2.2.2 2.3 Escape Today's Specific Responsibilities
Subscriber's Specific Responsibilities3. PAYMENT 
3.1 Price of Subscription
3.2 Payment for Services
3.3 Method of Payment
3.4 Fee Reviews

4. GST
4.1 GST Act
In this clause words that are defined in A New Tax System (Goods and Services Tax) Act 1999 (GST Act) have the same meaning as their definition in that Act.
4.2 Exclusive of GST
4.4 Tax Invoice
It is agreed that:
5. INSURANCE
6.2 Warranty7. LIMITATIONS OF ESCAPE TODAY'S LIABILITY
7.1 Effect of Legislation
Exclusion of Implied Warranties
7.3 General Exclusion of Liability
7.4 General Limitation of Liability
Without limitation to any other provision of this clause, the liability of Escape Today is limited to the amount paid by the Subscriber, to Escape Today in fees during the 6 months prior to the date the liability arises
7.5 Limitation of Liability
7.6 Consequential Losses
8. TERMINATION
8.1 Immediate Termination
8.2 Notice of Default
8.3 Failure to Rectify Default
8.4 Termination Without Reason
9. CONFIDENTIALITY
9.1 Use of Information
9.2 Continuing Obligations
10. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS
10.1 Ownership
10.2 Licence of Intellectual Property Rights
10.3 Acknowledgment of Ownership11. NOTICES
11.1 Service of Notice
11.2 Particulars for ServiceThe particulars for service of Escape Today are:
address:	PO Box 402, St Kilda VIC 3182 
email address:	kareene@escapetoday.com.au
11.2.2 The particulars for service of the Subscriber are provided for in item 11 of Schedule 1.
11.3 Time of Service
12. GENERAL
12.1 Amendment
12.2 Entire Understanding
This document contains the entire understanding between the parties as to the subject matter contained in it.  All previous agreements, representations, warranties, explanations and commitments, expressed or implied, affecting this subject matter are superseded by this document and have no effect.
12.3 Further Assurance
12.4 Legal Costs and Expenses
12.5 Waiver and Exercise of Rights

13. INTERPRETATION
13.1 Governing Law and Jurisdiction
This document is governed by and is to be construed in accordance with the laws of Victoria.  Each party irrevocably and unconditionally submits to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of the courts of Victoria and waives any right to object to proceedings being brought in those courts.
13.2 Joint and Several
If a party consists of more than one person, this document binds them jointly and each of them severally.
13.3 Legislation
In this document, a reference to a statute includes regulations under it and consolidations, amendments, re-enactments or replacements of any of them.
13.4 This Document, Clauses and Headings
In this document:
13.4.1 a reference to this or other document includes the document as varied or replaced regardless of any change in the identity of the parties;
13.4.2 a reference to a clause, schedule, appendix or annexure is a reference to a clause, schedule, appendix or annexure in or to this document all of which are deemed part of this document;
13.4.3 a reference to writing includes all modes of representing or reproducing words in a legible, permanent and visible form;
13.4.4 headings and sub-headings are inserted for ease of reference only and do not affect the interpretation of this document;
13.4.5 where an expression is defined, another part of speech or grammatical form of that expression has a corresponding meaning; and
13.4.6 where the expression including or includes is used it means 'including but not limited to' or 'including without limitation'.
13.5 Severance
13.5.1 If a provision in this document is held to be illegal, invalid, void, voidable or unenforceable, that provision must be read down to the extent necessary to ensure that it is not illegal, invalid, void, voidable or unenforceable.
13.5.2 If it is not possible to read down a provision as required in this clause, that provision is severable without affecting the validity or enforceability of the remaining part of that provision or the other provisions in this document.
13.6 Counterparts
This document may be executed in any number of counterparts all of which taken together constitute one instrument.
13.7 Currency
In this document, a reference to '$' or 'dollars' is a reference to Australian dollars.
13.8 Business Day
If a payment or other act is required by this document to be made or done on a day which is not a Business Day, the payment or act must be made or done on the next following Business Day.
13.9 Number and Gender
In this document, a reference to:
13.9.1 the singular includes the plural and vice versa; and
13.9.2 a gender includes the other genders.
13.10 Property
In this document, a reference to any property or assets of a person includes the legal and beneficial interest of that person in those assets or property, whether as owner, lessee or lessor, licensee or licensor, trustee or beneficiary or otherwise.
13.11 Personal Knowledge
A reference to a matter being to the knowledge of a person means the matter is to the best of the knowledge and belief of the person after making proper enquiry including enquiry which a reasonable person would be prompted to make by reason of knowledge of a fact.

EXECUTED by the parties as an Agreement  

SIGNED on behalf of ESCAPE TODAY ABN 42 271 885 337 by 
In the presence of 
)
) .......................................
)


	
Witness



SIGNED on behalf of the SUBSCRIBER SPECIFIED IN THE SCHEDULE ACN AS SPECIFIED IN THE SCHEDULE by 
In the presence of 
)
)
) .......................................
)


	
Witness







Schedule 1 

Escape Today Escape Agreement
Special Conditions

WARNING UNDER THE FAIR TRADING ACT 1999 
Under the provisions of the Fair Trading Act 1999 several conditions are implied into contracts for the supply of certain goods and services. These conditions mean that the supplier named on this form is required to ensure that the recreational services it supplies to you are- 
rendered with due care and skill; and 
as fit for the purpose for which they are commonly bought as it is reasonable to expect in the circumstances; and 
reasonably fit for any particular purpose or might reasonably be expected to achieve any result you have made known to the supplier. 
Under section 32N of the Fair Trading Act 1999, the supplier is entitled to ask you to agree that these conditions do not apply to you. If you sign this form, you will be agreeing that your rights to sue the supplier under the Fair Trading Act 1999 if you are killed or injured because the services were not rendered with due care and skill or they were not reasonably fit for their purpose, are excluded, restricted or modified in the way set out in this form. 
NOTE: The change to your rights, as set out in this form, does not apply if your death or injury is due to gross negligence on the supplier's part. "Gross negligence" is defined in the Fair Trading (Recreational Services) Regulations 2004. 

In this Agreement:
Escape Today means Escape Today Pty Ltd ABN 42 271 885 337.
Provider means the provider of the Activity or Services.
Subscriber means the subscriber to Escape Today's Services.
Customer means the individual (including an officer, Employee, contractor or agent of the Subscriber) who takes part or otherwise receives the benefit of the Provider's Activity or Service.
1. Supply of Escape Today Activities
2. Roles of the Parties
3. Arrangements for Payment 4. Indemnity  and Limitations of Liability
4.1 Exclusion of Implied Warranties
4.2 General Exclusion of Liability
4.3 Limitation of Liability
4.4 Provider to Assume All Liability for Supply of Service
4.5 Limitation of Liability





17

[5387077: 5397414v1] 



[5387077: 5397414v1] 



ii



[5387077: 5397414v1] 



18

[5387077: 5397414v1] 






DEED OF AGREEMENT


BETWEEN

AUSTRALIAN RESPIRATORY COUNCIL (ARC)


AND


[insert name of institution]






IN RELATION TO



AUSTRALAIN RESPIRATORY COUNCIL ANN WOOLCOCK FELLOWSHIP FOR [insert year]

THIS DEED is made on the .......... day of ........................ 200....

BETWEEN

AUSTRALIAN RESPIRATORY COUNCIL 
(ABN  11883 368 767                          )

of:	GPO Box 102
       SYDNEY NSW 2001
       (ARC)

AND

Institution:	..............................................................

ABN:		..............................................................

of (address):	..............................................................
       ..............................................................
       ..............................................................
..............................................................
       ("Institution")

WHEREAS:

A. 	ARC has as its objects the funding of training and research in the area of respiratory and community health, particularly in relation to Tuberculosis. Income derived from donations and investments is used to support these activities. One of these activities is the ARC Ann Woolcock Fellowship (the "Fellowship") which is awarded from time to time as determined by the ARC Board on the recommendation of the Research Committee. The objectives of the Fellowship include providing opportunities within biomedical, clinical, public health and/or health services research, and other research of relevance to human health, to encourage people of outstanding ability to develop research as a significant component of their career.

B.	The purpose of the Fellowship is to provide assistance, in such cases and subject to such conditions as the ARC Board may determine:

1. to Departments of the Commonwealth or of a State or Territory engaged in  medical research; and
2. to Universities for the purposes of medical research; and
3. to other institutions engaged in medical research,

and subject to agreement by the recipient, to comply with guidelines issued by
the NHMRC relating to ethical issues in the conduct of medical and health research.

C. 	ARC administers the Funding of the Fellowship. 

D. 	The Institution has applied for funding under the Fellowship to undertake the Project.

E. 	ARC has agreed to provide the funding to the Institution for the Project provided the Institution executes this Deed and complies with the legal obligations on the Institution to use the Funds in support of the objectives of the Fellowship.

INDEX

1. 	INTERPRETATION
2. 	ADMINISTRATION OF FELLOWSHIP
3. 	FUNDING AND CO-FUNDING
4. 	USE OF FUNDS
5. 	ACCOUNTABILITY OF INSTITUTION FOR FUNDS
6. 	REPORTING
7. 	EVALUATION OF THE FELLOWSHIP
8. 	INSPECTION OF DOCUMENTS
9. 	FELLOWSHIP MATERIAL AND INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY
10. 	EQUIPMENT AND ANIMALS
11. 	MOBILITY
12. 	ACKNOWLEDGEMENT AND PROMOTION
13. 	FELLOWSHIP RECIPIENT
14. 	TERMINATION FOR CONVENIENCE
15. 	TERMINATION AND SUSPENSION
16. 	RECOVERY OF FUNDS
17.	INDEMNITY
18. 	INSURANCE
19. 	USE OF INFORMATION
20. 	NEGATION OF EMPLOYMENT, PARTNERSHIP AND AGENCY
21. 	COMPLIANCE WITH LAW
22. 	CONFLICT OF INTEREST
23. 	PROTECTION OF PERSONAL INFORMATION
24. 	DISPUTE RESOLUTION
25. 	NOTICES
26. 	RESPONSIBLE OFFICER
27. 	ASSIGNMENT AND OTHER ENCUMBRANCES
28. 	EXECUTIVE OFFICER MAY ACT
29. 	SURVIVAL OF PROVISIONS
30. 	TAXES, DUTIES AND CHARGES

ANNEXURE A - INSTITUTIONAL APPROVALS AND COMPLIANCES


SCHEDULE

ITEM A 	DESCRIPTION OF FELLOWSHIP (subclause 1.1)
ITEM B	FELLOWSHIP RECIPIENT (subclause 1.1)
ITEM C 	PERIOD OF FUNDING (subclause 1.1)
ITEM D 	FELLOWSHIP PURPOSES (subclause 1.1, clause 2 and subclause 11.2)
ITEM E 	FUNDS, FUNDING (subclause 1.1 and clause 3)
ITEM F 	APPROVED BUDGET (subclause 1.1 and clause 4)
ITEM G	CO-FUNDING (subclause 1.1 and clause 3)
ITEM H 	REPORTING (clause 6)
ITEM I	 	ARC OWNERSHIP (subclause 10.1)
ITEM J 	NOTICES (clause 25)



THIS DEED PROVIDES that the parties be bound by the conditions of this Deed.

IT IS HEREBY AGREED AS FOLLOWS:

1. INTERPRETATION

1.1 	In this Deed, unless the contrary intention appears:

"Administrative Costs" means any costs associated with the performance of the Fellowship not identified in the Approved Budget including overheads, staffing, administrative support, information technology services, premises, resources and capital purchases;

"Annual Financial Report" means a statement of receipts and expenditure for each calendar year as specified in Clause 6.1;

"Application" means the application for Fellowship funding from ARC;

"Approved Budget" means the budget approved by ARC, as specified
in Item F;

"Australian Accounting Standards" refers to the standards of that name maintained by the Australian Accounting Standards Board created by section 226 of the Australian Securities and Investments Commission Act 2001 (Cth);

"Chief Financial Officer" means the person with principal responsibility for
accounting and financial management within the Institution, or another person
nominated by the Institution who is a qualified public accountant and member of one of the following organisations, CPA Australia, the Institute of Chartered Accountants, or the National Institute of Accountants;

"Co-funding" means the amount, if any, specified in Item G, being the contribution by the Institution or a third party for the Project;

"Executive Officer" means the Chief Executive Officer of ARC or a person duly authorised to exercise the powers of the Executive Officer, and includes a person for the time being occupying that position;

"Fellow" means the recipient of an ARC Ann Woolcock Fellowship;

"Fellowship" means the ARC Ann Woolcock Fellowship;

"Fellowship Material" means all material created, provided or required to be provided as part of or for the purposes of the Fellowship, and includes (without limitation) any material derived from such material and any documents, equipment, information or data stored by any means;

"Fellowship Purposes" means the purposes for which the Funds are provided as specified in the Application identified in Item D;

"Fellowship Recipient" means the person specified in Item B in respect of whom the funds are provided;

"Fellowship Support Package" means that part of the Funds to be provided by ARC for the purpose of funding the Fellowship Recipient, as may be identified in the Approved Budget set out in Item F;

"Financial Acquittal" means a statement of receipts and expenditure as specified in Clause 6.3;

"Funds" means funds provided by ARC for the Project, as specified in
Item E;

"Information Privacy Principles" means the Information Privacy Principles in the Privacy Act 1988 (Cth);

"Institution" means the institution referred to at the commencement of this Deed;

"Institutional Approvals" means the documented clearance requirements and compliances specified at Annexure A;

"Intellectual Property" includes all copyright and neighbouring rights, all rights in relation to inventions (including patent rights), plant varieties, registered and
unregistered trademarks (including service marks), registered designs and circuit
layouts and all other rights resulting from intellectual activity in the industrial,
scientific, literary or artistic fields;

"Item" refers to an item specified in the Schedule;

"New Institution" means another institution or body to which a Fellow elects to move, provided the Fellow is intending to continue with the Project (or part of the Project) at that other institution or body;

"NHMRC" means the National Health and Medical Research Council as defined and established by the National Health and Medical Research Council Act 1992 and any enactments amending the Act;

"Parties" means the two parties to this Deed of Agreement;

"Period of Funding" means the time period set out in Item C;

"Personal Information" means information or an opinion (including information or an opinion forming part of a database), whether true or not, and whether recorded in a material form or not, about a natural person whose identity is apparent, or can reasonably be ascertained, from the information or opinion; (this definition has been taken from section 6 of the Privacy Act 1988 (Cth));

"Project" means a research project or body of research work that is the subject of an Application as specified in Item D;

"Responsible Officer" means the officer appointed by the Institution for the purposes of the administration of the Funds;

"Schedule" and "Schedules" means the schedule or schedules (as the case may be) to this Deed;

"Transfer Application" means an application to ARC made by a Fellow or the Institution, for approval to transfer the whole or part of the Funds, as applicable, to a New Institution;

"Working Day" means any day, but does not include Saturdays, Sundays, public holidays or any other day on which the Institution is closed for business to the public.

1.2 	Except where the context otherwise requires:

(a) 	words importing a gender include any other gender;
(b) 	words in the singular number include the plural and words in the plural number include the singular;
(c) 	clause headings are for convenient reference only and have no effect in limiting or extending the meaning of the provisions to which they refer;
(d) 	where any word or phrase is given a defined meaning, any other form of that word or phrase has a corresponding meaning; and
(e) 	a reference to a person or body includes a partnership and a body corporate or body politic.


2. ADMINISTRATION OF FELLOWSHIP

3. FUNDING AND CO-FUNDING

Financial Reports- Annual
Financial Acquittal - End of Period of Funding


23. PROTECTION OF PERSONAL INFORMATION

IN WITNESS WHEREOF the Parties have executed this DEED as at the day and year written above.

SIGNED, SEALED AND DELIVERED on behalf of ARC by: 


................................................  .............................................
(print name) 				(Signature)


................................................ 
(position) 

in the presence of: 


................................................  ..............................................
(print name) 				 (Signature)


................................................ 
(position) 


SIGNED, SEALED AND DELIVERED on behalf of the 


................................................ 
(Institution name) 


by .............................................  ..............................................
(print name) 				(Signature)
who warrants they have the authority to bind the Institution 


................................................ 
(position) 

in the presence of: 


................................................  ...............................................
(print name)  				(Signature)


................................................ 
(position) 

ANNEXURE A - INSTITUTIONAL APPROVALS AND COMPLIANCES

1.	Documented Clearance Requirements
(a) Research involving humans(b) Animal experimentation


Where research conducted under the Fellowship involves the use of inbred strains of animals, the institution must confirm that the genetic authenticity of such animal colonies has been checked at appropriate intervals.

(c) Use of radioactive substances, ionising radiation, recombinant DNA,
biohazardous material, potent teratogens or carcinogens

Clearance for Fellowships which involve any of the above must be obtained from the
appropriate Institutional Bio-safety Committee and/or, where relevant, the appropriate Ethics Committee. If a Fellowship involves the use of ionising radiation, the Institution shall ensure that any personnel performing procedures involving ionising radiation are appropriately trained and hold a relevant current licence from the appropriate State authority, and that all relevant State or Territory legislation is complied with. The Institution shall retain all such licences and shall provide them to ARC if required to do so.

(d) Administration to humans of drugs, chemical agents or vaccines

(e) Import of experimental organisms
(f) Storage of biological materials
(g) Genetic manipulation

2.	Compliance with NHMRC Guidelines

* National Statement on Ethical Conduct in Research Involving Humans
* Joint AVCC/NHMRC Statement and Guidelines on Research Practice
* Australian code of practice for the care and use of animals for scientific purposes
* Guidelines on Ethical matters in Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health Research
* Ethical Guidelines on Assisted Reproductive Technology (1996) [under review]
* Guidelines for Genetic Registers and Associated Genetic Material 1999
* Guidelines for Ethical Review of Research Proposals for Human Somatic Cell Gene Therapy and Related Therapies
* Guidelines under Sections 95 and 95A of the Privacy Act 1988 (Cth)
* Guidelines under Sections 95 and 95A of the Privacy Act 2000 (Cth)
* Supplementary Note 7 - Somatic Cell Gene Therapy and Other Forms of Experimental
* Introduction of DNA and RNA into Human Subjects 1992




SCHEDULE TO THIS DEED OF AGREEMENT

(Note references in the Schedule are to clauses in the Deed of Agreement)

SIGNATURE BLOCK FOR SCHEDULE

This Schedule is made on the ......... day of .............................. 200....

The parties agree to be bound by the terms and conditions set out in the Deed
dated ................... {insert date Deed was signed}

IN WITNESS WHEREOF the Parties have executed this Schedule as a DEED as at the day and year written above.

SIGNED, SEALED AND DELIVERED on behalf of ARC by: 


................................................  ...............................................
(print name) ) 				(Signature)


................................................. 
(position) 					in the presence of: 


.................................................  ...............................................
(print name) 				 (Signature)


................................................. 
(position) 


SIGNED, SEALED AND DELIVERED on behalf of the 


................................................ 
(Institution Name) 


by .............................................  ...............................................
(print name) 				(Signature)
who warrants they have the authority to bind the Institution 


................................................. 
(position)					in the presence of: 

.................................................  ...............................................
(print name) 				(Signature)

................................................. 
 (position) 
21



Miscellaneous


Dated the 		day of 					, 2007.


 
 IN WITNESS the parties have duly executed this Agreement on the date first above written.
 
 EXECUTED BY	)
 THE ROADS FOUNDATION 	)	
 ACN: 069 837 627	)
 In accordance with its Constitution	)
 and s.127 of the Corporations Act:          )	
 
 
 .......................................................	
 Chief Executive Officer	
 
 .......................................................	
 Full Name	
 
 ......................................................	
 Date	


 EXECUTED BY	)
 [INSERT COMPANY NAME] 	)	
 [INSERT ACN: #]	)
 In accordance with its Constitution	)
 and s.127 of the Corporations Act:           )	
 
 
 .......................................................	
 General Manager	
 
 .......................................................	
 Full Name	
 
 ......................................................	
 Date	
 
 13
 
 
 2
 
 
SOFTWARE LICENCE AND SUPPORT AGREEMENT

BETWEEN
 PPMP of Suite 1/145-147 Upper Heidelberg Road, Ivanhoe, Victoria. 3079             ABN 47 283 665 875
('PPMP')
AND
THE PARTY SO SPECIFIED IN SCHEDULE 1
('Licensee')

BACKGROUND
A. The Licensee wishes to use the Software.
B. OPERATIVE PROVISIONS
1. DEFINITIONS
In this Agreement, except to the extent the context otherwise requires:
'Agreement' means this Software Licence and Support Agreement;
'Business Day' means a day other than a Saturday, Sunday, a public holiday or other holiday in Melbourne;
'Commencement Date' means the date so specified in schedule 1;
'GST' has the same meaning as in the GST Act;
'GST Act' means A New Tax System (Goods and Services Tax) Act 1999 as amended;
'Initial Term' means the period so specified in schedule 1, commencing on the Commencement Date;
'Intellectual Property Rights' means all intellectual property rights, including but not limited to:
(a) patents, copyright, registered designs, trade marks, and any right to have confidential information kept confidential; and
(b) any application or right to apply for registration of any of the rights referred to in paragraph (a) of this definition;
'Licence Fee' means the licence fee specified in schedule 1, being either the Single User Licence Fee or the Network Licence Fee;
'Location' has the meaning set out in schedule 1;
'Network Licence Fee' means the Licence Fee described in schedule 1 which applies to Software to be used on a network of computers;
'Single User Licence Fee' means the Licence Fee described in schedule 1 which applies to Software installed on a single computer;
'Software' means the software type and version set out in schedule 1;
'Supply' has the same meaning as in the GST Act;
'Support Charge' means the charge per month specified in schedule 1;
'Support Software' means the support or diagnostic software provided by PPMP in accordance with clause 4.3;
'System' has the meaning set out in schedule 1;
'Tax Invoice' has the same meaning as in the GST Act;
'Upgraded Version' means an enhancement, improvement or modification to the Software; and
'writing' includes typewriting, printing, lithography, photography and any other mode of representing or reproducing words in a permanent and visible form.
2. LICENCE AND USE OF SOFTWARE
2.2 For the purposes of this Agreement, 'Use' means:
(a) utilisation of the Software by copying, transmitting or loading the same into the temporary memory (RAM) or installing into the permanent memory (eg hard disk, CD ROM or other storage device) of the System for the processing of the System instructions or statements contained in the Software;
(b) copying the Software which is in machine-readable form for Use by the Licensee on the System for the purposes only of understanding the contents of such machine-readable material and for back-up provided that no more than 2 copies are in existence under this Agreement at any one time without prior written consent from PPMP or as otherwise permitted by the applicable law;
(c) merging the whole or any part of the Software in machine-readable form into another software program;
(d) storing the whole or any part of the Software on the System or other storage unit or disk; and
(e) utilising (but not copying) the instructional and/or operational manuals relating to the Software.
2.3 If the Software is to be used on a networked System, the Licensee shall advise PPMP in writing immediately of any increase or proposed increase in the number of computers networked to the System, and pay any additional amount relating to the increased number of computers. 
3. LICENSEE'S RIGHTS
5. LICENCE FEE AND SUPPORT CHARGES
6. SUPPORT NOT INCLUDED
7. GOODS AND SERVICES TAX
8. LICENSEE'S UNDERTAKINGS
9. WARRANTY
10. PPMP'S LIABILITY11. LICENSEE'S ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
12. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS
13. INDEMNITY14. CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION
15. FORCE MAJEURE
16. TERMINATION
17. PPMP'S RIGHTS
18. COUNTERPARTS
19. SURVIVAL OF AGREEMENT
20. ASSIGNMENT
21. WAIVER
22. SEVERABILITY
23. GOVERNING LAW AND JURISDICTION
24. NOTICE
25. INTERPRETATION
SCHEDULE 1
Terms of Agreement

1.	The Licensee

2.	Commencement Date
___________________________________
3.	Software and Version
PPMP Version 6.1.0
4.	System
* Single User computer (Operating System: Win XP Professional, Version 2002 or Windows 2000; Processor Speed: 1.1 GHz,     RAM 512MB); or
* Network with ______________ (insert no.) computers 
5.	Location(s)

6.	Licence Fee
* Single User Licence Fee:
* Network Licence Fee:	
					
$0 to existing users (incl. GST)
$0 to existing users (incl. GST) for a maximum of 3 computers; plus
$0 (incl. GST) per computer for each computer greater than 3 computers
7.	Support
(a) telephone;
(b) email; and
(c) fax
9.	Support Charges
(a) monthly Support Charge:
* Single User Licence
* Network Licence (2 - 5 terminals)
* Network Licence (6 - 9 terminals)
(b) out of hours Support Charge:
(c) onsite:

$49.50 (incl. GST) per month
$66 (incl. GST) per month
$82.50 (incl. GST) per month
additional charges will be levied
additional charges will be levied
8.	Initial Term
12 months

EXECUTED as an agreement in Victoria.

EXECUTED for and on behalf of
)
PPMP ABN 35 418 176 759
)))


?


       David John Britten

?




EXECUTED for and on behalf of
)

THE LICENSEE by authority of the directors in the presence of:
)))




?
Director

?
Director/Secretary



?
Full name of director

?
Full name of director/secretary



TABLE OF CONTENTS

1.	DEFINITIONS	1
2.	LICENCE AND USE OF SOFTWARE	2
3.	LICENSEE'S RIGHTS	3
4.	SUPPORT	3
5.	LICENCE FEE AND SUPPORT CHARGES	3
6.	SUPPORT NOT INCLUDED	4
7.	GOODS AND SERVICES TAX	4
8.	LICENSEE'S UNDERTAKINGS	5
9.	WARRANTY	6
10.	PPMP'S LIABILITY	6
11.	LICENSEE'S ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS	7
12.	INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS	7
13.	INDEMNITY	7
14.	CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION	8
15.	FORCE MAJEURE	9
16.	TERMINATION	9
17.	PPMP'S RIGHTS	9
18.	COUNTERPARTS	9
19.	SURVIVAL OF AGREEMENT	9
20.	ASSIGNMENT	10
21.	WAIVER	10
22.	SEVERABILITY	10
23.	GOVERNING LAW AND JURISDICTION	10
24.	NOTICE	10
25.	INTERPRETATION	11
SCHEDULE 1	12
Terms of Agreement	12





PHYSIOTHERAPY PRACTICE MANAGEMENT PROGRAM
SOFTWARE LICENCE,
SUPPORT AND MAINTENANCE AGREEMENT


PPMP ABN    47 283 665 875
And
THE LICENSEE





/S1	Software Licence and Support Agreement Page 2 

/S1	Software Licence and Support Agreement



	Page ii



/S2







/S3	(c) McCullough Robertson 2003


Marine Brokers Authority to Sell - Boat
This Agreement is dated      	2008.
Between
Vendor:
I,                                                                                                     ("the Boat Owner")

Of	     

	     State:     	PC:      
Hereinafter called "the Vendor"

Registered Owner Details of Boat:
Name:       
Address:       
	         	                                                        State:        	PC:       
Boat Name:                                   State of Reg'n:         Registered Number:        

and
Broker:
I,                                                                                                               Position:       
Of	Power Sail Marine
	Shop 16, Birkenhead Point Marina
	Roseby Street, Drummoyne	 NSW	2047
Hereinafter called "the Broker"


RECITALS:
A. The Vendor hereby appoints the Broker as his agent to sell the Boat described in the Boat Details in Schedule attached hereto.
B. The Broker agrees to accept the appointment
OPERATIVE PROVISIONS:
1. APPOINTMENT OF AGENT


2. VENDOR'S WARRANTIES
     
3. BROKER'S RIGHTS
    (Delete as required)
6. INSPECTIONS
     
     
7. APPLICABLE LAW
	8. DEFINITIONS
    In this Agreement:
    "Boat"		means the Boat and its Gear in the Details of Boat.
"Gear"	Includes all appurtances, appliances, and equipment affixed to and forming part of the Boat 
"Encumbrance"	Includes any bond, mortgage, Bill of sale, lien, maritime, lien, statutory lien or other charge or encumbrance whatsoever.
"Other Interest"	includes a lease hire, hire purchase agreement, financial accommodation, charter agreement and any other liability.
9. This document comprises the entire agreement between the parties and no further or other covenants, agreements, conditions or restrictions shall be implied or held to arise between the parties by reason of any promise, representation or undertaking given by or on behalf of either party.
10. TERMINATION OF AGENCY
11. SPECIAL CONDITIONS
     
     
     
     
     
     
12. LOCATION AND ACCESS TO BOAT
Location and address of Boat:       

				             

Contact person (if any)	     	                                                       Tel:      

The Vendor acknowledges receipt of a copy of this Agreement.

SIGNED by the Vendor	.......................................	SIGNED by the Broker......................................
In the presence of					In the presence of
WITNESS		.......................................	WITNESS		..........................................



THE SCHEDULE - Boat Details


Description:  	     

Vessel: 	     
New, used or demonstrator: 	     
Hull/HIN No: 	     
Registration Number: 	     
Model:  		     				
Length: 		     
Builder: 		     
Year Built:		     
Construction: 		     
Motor/s: 		     
Model and H.P.  : 		     
Engine Serial Numbers: (Port) 	     
                                         : (Stbd) 	     
Genset: 		     
Genset Serial Number: 	     
Equipment: 	     
	     
	     
Boat Delivered ex: 	     
Annexure Attached:	  Annexure "A" - Statutory Declaration
		  Annexure "B" - Revs Certificate 
		  Annexure "C" - Registration Papers 

	PowerSail Marine	Page 1 of 4
Shop 16, Birkenhead Point Marina
Roseby Street, Drummoyne NSW 2047
Tel: 1 - 800 - 678 - 599	Fax: 02. 8213 - 6331
www.powersail.com.au



AGREEMENT
between the
THE PHARMACY GUILD OF AUSTRALIA
ABN 84 519 669 143


and xxxx

ABN xxxx



THIS Agreement is made 

BETWEEN

THE PHARMACY GUILD OF AUSTRALIA ABN 84 519 669 143, of level 2, Pharmacy Guild House, 15 National Circuit Barton ACT 2600; ('the Guild).

and 

[insert name, ABN, address of sub contractor] ("the Participant").

RECITALS:
A.	The Participant has entered into an agreement with the Commonwealth of Australia as represented by the Department of Health and Ageing ("Commonwealth") under which it may receive funding from the Commonwealth to participate in the Project ("Project Agreement").
B.	The objectives and outcomes of the [   ] Program are to [   ];
C. The Guild has agreed to fund the Participant for the Project described in this Agreement in support of the objectives and outcomes of the Program on the following terms and conditions.

THE PARTIES AGREE as follows:
In this Agreement, unless the contrary intention appears:
	Agreement means this document as amended from time to time and and includes any schedules and annexures;

"Agreement Period" means the period described in Clause XXX
Commonwealth Material means any Material:
provided by the Commonwealth to the Participant for the purposes of this Agreement; or
copied at any time from the Material referred to in paragraph (a);
Confidential Information means information that:
is by its nature confidential;
is designated by the Commonwealth as being confidential; or
the Participant knows or ought to know is confidential;
but does not include information that: 
is or becomes public knowledge, other than by breach of this Agreement or by any other unlawful means; 
is in the possession of the Participant without restriction in relation to disclosure before the date of receipt from the Commonwealth; or
has been independently developed or acquired by the Participant;
Department includes any department or agency of the Commonwealth which is from time to time responsible for the administration of this Agreement;
Existing Material means all Material in existence prior to the commencement of the Project Period;
incorporated in;
supplied with, or as part of; or
required to be supplied with, or as part of:
the Project Material and includes any Material identified as Existing Material in Item G;
Final Report means the Material provided to the Commonwealth in accordance with clauses 4.1 and 4.3;
Financial Statement means a statement provided in accordance with clause 4 that includes details of the Funds received by the Participant and contributions received for the Project from other sources, signed by an appropriate officer of the Participant and specifying the manner in which, and the purposes for which, any Funds paid by the Guild under this Agreement have been expended (accompanied by supporting documentation);
Funds means the amount or part thereof payable by the Guild as specified in Item D and includes any interest on the Funds ;
Intellectual Property includes all copyright (including rights in relation to phonograms and broadcasts), all rights in relation to inventions (including patent rights), plant varieties, registered and unregistered trademarks (including service marks), registered and unregistered designs, circuit layouts, and all other rights resulting from intellectual activity in the industrial, scientific, literary or artistic fields; 
Liaison Officer means the persons or position holders specified in Item E; 
Material includes documents, equipment, records, software (including source code and object code), goods, images, information and data stored by any means including all copies and extracts of the same;
Progress Reports means the report of the XXXX progress in carrying out the services to be provided to the Participant in accordance with clauses 4.1 and 4.2;
Project means the project and related activities described in Schedule 1, Item A for which the Funds are paid to the XXXX;
Project Material means all Material including Reports:
(a)	brought into existence for the purpose of this Agreement (including as a result of Pre-Agreement Project Implementation Tasks); 
(b) 	incorporated in, supplied or required to be supplied along with the Material referred to in paragraph (a); or
(d) copied or derived from the Material referred to in paragraphs (a) or (b);

including the Project Material listed in Schedule 1 Item E but excluding Existing Material;
Project Period means the period of funding specified in Item B;
Report means the Progress Reports and the Final Report.
1.2	In this Agreement, unless the contrary intention appears:		
(a) 	words in the singular number include the plural and words in the plural number include the singular;
(b) 	words importing a gender include any other gender; 
(c) 	words importing persons include a partnership and a body whether corporate or otherwise;
(d) 	where any word or phrase is given a defined meaning, any other form of that word or phrase has a corresponding meaning;  
(e) 	an uncertainty or ambiguity in the meaning of a provision of this Agreement will not be interpreted against a party just because that party prepared the provision;
(f) 	reference to any statute or other legislation (whether primary or subordinate) is to a statute or other legislation of the Commonwealth and, if it has been or is amended, is a reference to that statute or other  legislation as amended;
(g)	a reference to a party (by whatever title) will, where the context so admits, include the officers, employees, agents and subcontractors of the party, and the party's successors and assigns; and
(h)	all references to 'clauses' are clauses in this Agreement all references to 'Items' are to Items in the Schedule to this Agreement, and any references to 'Schedule' are to the Schedule to this Agreement.
1.3 	If there is any conflict or inconsistency between:
(a) 	the terms and conditions contained in the clauses of this Agreement and any part of the Schedule, then the terms and conditions of the clauses will prevail to the extent of the conflict or  inconsistency; 
(b) 	the terms and conditions contained in the clauses of this Agreement and any part of the annexures (if any), then the terms and conditions of the clauses will prevail to the extent of the conflict or inconsistency; and
(c) 	any part of the Schedule and any part of the annexures (if any), then the Schedule will prevail to the extent of the conflict or inconsistency. 
2.	FUNDING 
3.	MANAGEMENT OF FUNDS
4.	REPORTS
5. 	LIAISON
6.	ACCESS TO PREMISES AND MATERIALS  
7.	INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY
8.	ACKNOWLEDGMENT AND PUBLICATIONS
This clause 8 survives the expiration or earlier termination of this Agreement.
9.	NEGATION OF EMPLOYMENT, PARTNERSHIP AND AGENCY  
10.	SUSPENSION AND TERMINATION
12.	INDEMNITYA notice given in accordance with clause 15.1 is received:
(a) 	if hand delivered, on delivery;
(b) 	if sent by pre-paid post on the third Business Day after the date of posting;
(c) 	if sent by facsimile, at the time the sender receives notification that the notice   has been transmitted satisfactorily.


EXECUTED as an agreement


SIGNED for and on behalf of the	)
THE PHARMCY GUILD OF AUSTRALIA)
ABN 84 519 699 143 on:	)
	)
	)
______________________________	)
	Date	)
by:	)
	)
	)
____________________________	)   _______________________________
	Name of signatory	)		Signature
	)
	)
	)
_____________________________	)
	Position of signatory	)
	)
in the presence of:	)
	)
	)
	)
____________________________	)   _______________________________
	Name of witness	)		Signature of witness

SIGNED
for and on behalf of the XXXX	)
ABN:	)
	) 
	)
______________________________)
	Date	)
by:	)
	)
	)
____________________________	)   _______________________________
	Name of signatory	)		Signature
	)
	)
	)
_____________________________	)
	Position of signatory	)
	)
in the presence of:	)
	)
	)
	)
____________________________	)   ______________________________
Name of witness	)		Signature of witness


SCHEDULE 1


ITEM A. 	PROJECT (clauses 1.1 and 2.4)

Project Outline

XXXXX

B.	PROJECT PERIOD (clause 1.1 and 3.2)

The term of the contract will be XXX months.

The commencement Date will be XXX.

The Terminating Date will be XXXX.


C.	REPORTS (clause 1.1 and 4)

The Participant must provide the following reports at the given times:


Interim Reports


XXX

Final Report


XXXX

Financial Activity Report


XXX
Final Audit

XXXX


D.	FUNDS (clauses 1.1, 2 and 3)


PROJECT

MILESTONES

DESCRIPTION/COMMENTS

PAYMENT DUE (ex GST)

Stage 1

Commence project
Contract signed
40%

Stage 2
Interim Report
Financial Activity Report

Submission and acceptance by the Guild of an interim report detailing progress against project objectives (as stated in Schedule 1)
40%

Stage 3
Final Report
Audited Report

Submission and acceptance by the Guild of the final report and audited financial report.
20%


Tax Invoices


E.	LIAISON OFFICERS (clauses 1.1, 5 and 15)

The Guild's Liaison Officer is the person holding, occupying or performing the duties of Divisional Manger, Rural & Indigenous Programs.  This position is currently occupied by the following Ms Michelle Quester available at the following address:

Street Address
Level 2, 15 National Circuit
Barton  ACT 2600


Postal Address
The Pharmacy Guild of Australia
National Secretariat
PO Box 7036
Canberra Business Centre ACT 2610

And available on the following telephone number and email address:

Phone:  (02) 62701888

Fax:  (02) 6270 1800

Email:  michelle.quester@guild.org.au

Participant's Liaison Officer
The Participant's Liaison Officer is the person holding, occupying or performing the duties of TBA.  This position is currently occupied by the following TBA available at the following address:

Street Address
XXXX

Postal Address
XXX

And available on the following telephone number and email address:

Phone:  XXX

Fax:  XX

Email:  XXXXX


F.	ACKNOWLEDGEMENT (clause 8)



G.	EXISTING MATERIAL (clause 7)


SCHEDULE 2

Small Project Funding Scheme
Financial Reporting Pro-forma

Name of Project

Reporting Period

to


Line Items 
Annual Budget
Actual for six month period
Actual to date
Comments / Notes
Staff / Personnel (e.g. Project Manger)




Equipment




Administration
(e.g. postage, stationary, internet, phone)




Travel




Printing




Audit Costs




Other Costs
(please list details)




TOTAL
$
$
$
$

1. This budget line items are only an indication and will vary depending on the Project.
2. Remember to include GST on all relevant budget items
3. Including staffing times and rates (if applicable)

I certify that all funds expended have been used in accordance with the purposes for which the funds were provided, that the institution has complied with the terms of the Principal Agreement, and that the accounts and records on which this statement has been prepared were properly maintained in accordance with Australian Accounting Standards.

Name

Position

Signature

Date



ANNEXURE E - INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY REGISTER
	
BACKGROUND INFORMATION
	TABLE 1:  EXISTING IP 
IP reference numberi
Description of IPii
Contributor of IP to the Project
Owner of IP (if known)
Restrictions on use of IP, if any

Is IP registered? If 'yes', provide detailsiii 

Date of creation or acquisitioniv
Date of entry into this Intellectual Property register
Example:
[Ref No - eg PE 1]
Software program [Name] containing:
* copyright
* [Name] trade mark 
[Name eg Contractor, subcontractor, Department]
[Name - eg YYY Corporation]
Australia-wide, perpetual, non-exclusive licence to use and modify software
[Name] trade mark was registered in Australia by [YYY Corp] on [01/01/01], number [11111], expires [01/01/11].
Licensed by Dept from [YYY Corp] on 04/08/06
04/08/06
















TABLE 2:  IP IN CONTRACT PROJECT MATERIAL 

IP reference number
Description of IP
Pre-existing IP used in development and whether the new IP can be separately owned
Developer of IP
Owner of IP (if known)
Restrictions on use of IP, if any

Is IP registered? If 'yes', provide details 
Date of creation or acquisition
Date of entry into this Intellectual Property register
Details of release of IPv
Example:
[Ref No - eg DE 1]

Modifications to software program [Name] containing copyright [explain purpose/function and details of modification]

See ref PE 1

[Name]

Commonwealth
owns modification

Nil

No

Created 04/04/07

05/04/07

N/A




















NOTES


i A system of numbering or other referencing may need to be devised, depending upon the number of entries to be recorded.  This is useful for cross-referencing pre-existing IP with developed IP.
ii This must include the form of IP (eg a trade mark) and what the IP subsists in (eg a software program, a report, etc).
iii Details of registration to be recorded include but are not limited to the form of IP (eg a trade mark), jurisdiction (eg Australia), date of registration and date of expiry.
iv It is acceptable to include a range of dates if there is no one identifiable date - eg 1-4/08/06.
v This column is used to record any licensing, publication, release or dissemination of works in which Project IP exists - eg publication of a report in a journal; provision of IP to a contractor.




??

??

??

??





Small Projects Funding Agreement May 2008


   ,  		 

2
  	



		 

This CONFIDENTIALITY AGREEMENT is made this __th day of ________200_.
BETWEEN:
[ ______________________________ ] ABN [_________] of [________], ("__________"); and 
South East Australia Gas Pty Limited ACN 096 437 900 of Level 4, 70 Hindmarsh Square, Adelaide, SA ("SEA Gas").

THE PARTIES AGREE:
Definitions
In this Agreement unless the context otherwise requires:

"Recipient" means, in relation to any Confidential Information, the Party to whom any Confidential Information is provided by a Discloser in terms of this Agreement and shall include that Party's employees, agents, consultants and advisers to whom Confidential Information is provided by the Party or by the Discloser.

"Confidential Information" means all the confidential information of a Party including without limitation, the existence of this Agreement and any other agreement from time to time agreed between the Parties or negotiations between the Parties and any other records, documents, accounts, plans, formulae, designs, specifications, inventions, devices, methods, price information, customers correspondence, technical and customer data, information relating to business development and marketing activities and papers of every description including all copies or extracts from the same relating to the affairs of the business of a Party or any subsidiary of a Party which from time to time is made available or becomes known or comes into the possession of another Party to this Agreement.

"Discloser" means the Party providing any Confidential Information to any other Party in terms of this Agreement.

"Party" means SEA Gas or _______.

"Approved Purpose" means the development and consideration of a proposal for _______ to contract to purchase gas haulage services from SEA Gas and the negotiating and documenting of the terms relating thereto.

Covenants

In consideration of the Discloser providing access to the Recipient of such of the Confidential Information as the Discloser agrees from time to time, the Recipient hereby covenants and undertakes:

1.	To treat all Confidential Information as confidential, except to the extent that at the time of its receipt by the Recipient it:
(a) was known to the Recipient from another source free from any obligation of confidence owed to the Discloser; or
(b) was in the public domain (other than through an act or omission of the Recipient or any person to whom it has disclosed Confidential Information).
The termination of any agreement entered into between the Parties after the date of this Agreement concerning the Approved Purpose.


EXECUTED by the parties

SIGNED for and on behalf of [__________] by a duly)
authorised officer in the presence of:	   )	
       ...................................................
							Authorised Person
  Name: 

................................................
Witness
Name (printed):




SIGNED for and on behalf of South	   ) 
East Australia Gas Pty Ltd by a duly  )
authorised officer in the presence of:	   )	
  ...................................................
							Authorised Person
  Name: 

................................................
Witness
Name (printed):


CONFIDENTIALITY AGREEMENT
Ref: COM - 12 -001
This is a Quality Controlled Document
Due Date for Review: December 2007


Revision: 1
PDF Date: February 2006
Page 1 of 4
Filename: COM - 12 -001







V.I.P. Personnel Pty Ltd




												
								
								
								
								
								
								

VIP PERSONNEL PTY LIMITED


AND


-----------------------------------






CLIENT ON HIRE AGREEMENT











Prepared in consultation HUNT & HUNT Lawyers, Level 22, Central Plaza Two, 66 Eagle Street, BRISBANE 4000
Telephone:  3231 2444, Facsimile:  3221 4356, www.hunthunt.com.au, CJP4021573 643235v1

CLIENT AGREEMENT
DATE: ____________________________________
BETWEEN:	VIP PERSONNEL PTY LIMITED (ABN 32 007 272 451) of Level 8, 230 Collins Street, Melbourne in the State of Victoria ("VIP")
AND:_______________________________________________________________________________________________________("the Client")


OPERATIVE
1. DEFINITIONS
In this Agreement:
(a) "Assignment" means the on-hire placement of one or more of our employees to work at your premises or anywhere else as specified by you;
(b) "Gross Annual Remuneration" means salary, superannuation and the value of any other benefits provided to an employee on an annual basis, before taxation;
(c) "GST" has the meaning stated in the "A New Tax System (Goods & Services Tax) Act 1999 (Commonwealth)
(d) "Misconduct" means dishonesty, fraud on you by us or by any one of our employees, and any harassment of you, your employees or clients;
(e) "Related Body Corporate" has the same meaning as in the Corporations Act 2001 (Commonwealth);
(f) "Schedule" means the Schedule attached to this Agreement, which we may substitute from time to time;
(g) "us", "our" or "we" refers to VIP; and
(h) "you" or "your" refers to the Client, and where the context indicates, a Related Body Corporate of the Client.
2. APPLICATION
3.2 Control of our Employee(s)
During the currency of this Agreement, whilst one of our employees is on an Assignment, you agree that our employees will be under your direction, and you will be responsible for their supervision and control.
4. RATES & PAYMENT
4.1 Payment by the Client
(a) 
7. YOUR OBLIGATIONS
8.2	Subsequent Placement Fee
9.4 Non Assignment
9.5 Severance
This Agreement is to be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the Commonwealth of Australia in the State of Victoria for the time being in force and the parties exclusively submit to the jurisdiction of the courts exercising jurisdiction in Victoria.
SIGNED AS AN AGREEMENT on ______________________________ 2011

SIGNED for and on behalf of  VIP PERSONNEL PTY LIMITED  this day of 

________________________ 2011 in the

presence of :		)

Witness

SIGNED __________________________________

 for and on behalf of 

_________________________________

This ________ day of ______ 2011  in the 


presence of:		)

Witness
__________________________________


Credit Information Consent




* identity particulars such as our names, our sex, our addresses and the previous two
	addresses, your dates of birth, the name of our employer, and driver's licence number;
* the fact that the Company  has applied for credit, the Company's application for credit or
	commercial credit and the amount;
* the fact that VIP is a current credit provider to the Company;
* loan repayments which are overdue by more than 60 days and for which debt collection 
	action is started;
* advice that our loan repayments are no longer overdue in respect of any default that has 
	been listed; and
* information that in VIP's opinion we have committed a serious credit infringement i.e. acted
	fraudulently or shown an intention not to comply with our credit obligations.

By signing this consent, we consent to VIP's collection and disclosure of credit information about us in the manner described in this Credit Information Consent.

Signed: ...........................	Date:............	Signed: ...........................	Date:............... 
Print name:................................................	Print name:.......................................



Signed: ...........................	Date:............	Signed: ...........................	Date:............... 
Print name:................................................	Print name:.......................................



Safety First

The following agreement details both the Clients and V.I.P. Personnel's responsibilities in regards to the hire of contract labour.
Client Responsibilities



Safety First

The following agreement details both the Clients and V.I.P. Personnel's responsibilities in regards to the hire of contract labour.
Client Responsibilities

In order to minimise the risks to health and safety the following information must be completed prior to a contract employee being placed with the client.
Kitchen Hand

   Catering Assistant
?
Cleaning of all dishes, glassware, cutlery and kitchen utensils

?
Counter set up
?
Polishing of all crockery, glassware and cutlery

?
Customer service
?
Stacking and storing of all clean dishes, pots and pans

?
Sandwich and roll preparation
?
Cleaning of all kitchen areas

?
Food preparation
?
Cleaning of all bar areas

?
Dish washing and cleaning
?
Cleaning of all shelving, benches and walls

?
Using espresso machine
?
Cleaning of all equipment, e.g. stoves, ovens, freezers etc

?
Cash handling
?
Sweeping floors

?
Using cash register
?
Cleaning kitchen/floor mats

?
Stocking fridges
?
Assisting with re stocking/replenishing of food stock

?
Sweeping general areas
?
Emptying, changing and cleaning of rubbish bins

?
Collecting glassware and tableware
?
Breaking down boxes for disposal

?
Basic Cooking
?
Basic food preparation

?
Deep frying
?
Mop floors as required

?
Using a Slicer
?
Preparation of chemicals for cleaning

?
Preparation of chemicals for cleaning



Wait/Bar Personnel

Chefs
?
Selling, supplying, dispensing or mixing of liquor 

?
Food preparation and cooking of foods from the specified menu
?
General waiting duties including food & beverage service 

?
Menu design
?
Greeting and seating guests

?
Ordering produce
?
Washing dishes as required

?
Receiving stock
?
Polishing glassware & cutlery 

?
Stock take of goods when specified
?
Set up and break down of function area, including furnishings

?
Cleaning of equipment
?
Clearing tables during service and after

?
Presentation and service of food from kitchen to appropriate areas
?
Cleaning as required

?
Maintain clean work areas
?
Cash handling

?
Ensure high standards of food storage, kitchen cleanliness and safety
?
Selling, supplying, preparing, or mixing of hot drinks

?
Sharpen Knives
?
Preparation of chemicals for cleaning

?
Register use, counter service
?
Collection of dirty glasses & ashtrays

?
Rubbish removal
?
Cellar work/changing kegs/stock rotation

?
Food preparation & production for functions
?
Taking reservations






Equipment

Food Services Assistant
?
Washing and cleaning chemicals

?
Tray line service
?
Kitchen utensils including knives

?
Food preparation
?
Trolleys

?
Distribution of patient meals and beverages to wards
?
Ovens, microwaves, fryers, grillers, Combi steamers

?
Dishwashing
?
Brushes, mops, buckets, brooms

?
Stacking cutlery & crockery 
?
Blenders, dough mixers, pasta machines, ice cream churners

?
General cleaning
?
Dishwasher



?
Pasta Boilers



?
Glass washer



?
Trays



?
Espresso Machine



?
Baine Maries



?
Slicer



?
Deep fryer



?
Other (please specify)



Briefly describe the physical nature of the workplace and the tasks to be undertaken

Will the worker be supervised or working unattended?     
Supervised
?
Unattended
?
Will training & induction aimed at familiarisation with the site, facilities, policies & procedures be 
provided to the worker?
Yes
?
No
?
Signed : ______________________________________________






2 of 10

Level 8, 230 Collins St Melbourne 3000	         Telephone:  03 9650 9206	Facsimile:   03 9654 7469
E-mail:   info@vipstaff.com.au	Web:   www.vipstaff.com.au
ABN 32 007 272 451
1 of 10



Page 4 of 10

Page 5 of 10

Page 6 of 10

Page 7 of 10

Page 8 of 10



DEED FOR THE LOAN OF
DEFENCE EQUIPMENT

BETWEEN

THE COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA

AND

[insert name of Borrower]



THIS DEED is made on the 		day of 		2007
between
THE COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA 
represented by
THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENCE (`the Commonwealth\B4) 
and
[...INSERT BORROWER NAME...] (`the Borrower\B4).
RECITALS:
A. The Commonwealth has a requirement, stipulated in Request for Tender (RFT) No. 05/060 (EWS) ("the RFT"), for a Battle Group and Below, Command, Control and Communications (BGC3) System. A part of this system is required to be integrated with Individual Combat Load Carriage Equipment (ICLCE) ("the Equipment"), so as to be worn by individual soldiers.
B. The Borrower has requested the Commonwealth to provide the Equipment as described in the Schedule, for the purpose of preparing a response to the RFT and in order to meet the requirements of system integration with the Equipment;
C. The Commonwealth has agreed to provide the Equipment to the Borrower upon and subject to the following terms and conditions.
THE PARTIES AGREE AS FOLLOWS:

INTERPRETATION
1.1 In this Agreement unless the context otherwise requires:
a. `Agreement\B4 means this Deed including the Schedule annexed hereto or any document incorporated herein and includes any variation to the Agreement in writing between the parties;
b. `Borrower' means [insert name of Borrower] and where the context requires includes its employees, agents, successors and permitted assigns; and
c. `Equipment\B4 means the equipment to be provided hereunder and specified in Item 1 of the Schedule, including all of its subcomponents or parts.
1.2 Words denoting one gender include any other gender.
1.3 Words in the singular number include the plural and words in the plural number include the singular.
1.4 A reference to a person shall be taken to include a natural person, a partnership, a corporation or an unincorporated association.
1.5 Clause headings in this Agreement are for convenient reference only and have no effect on the construction, interpretation or meaning of the Agreement.
1.6 Where a word or phrase is given a particular meaning, other grammatical forms of that word or phrase have corresponding meanings.
2 LOAN
18 APPLICABLE LAW
Commonwealth Representative postal address and facsimile number:
The Project Director- Land 75
Department of Defence 
Russell Offices R3-3-049
Canberra, ACT 2600
AUSTRALIA

Fax: 02 6265 2739

Borrower postal address and facsimile number:
[...INSERT BORROWER'S POSTAL ADDRESS AND FACSIMILE NUMBER...]


SIGNED AS A DEED
SIGNED for and on behalf of

THE COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA:








(signature)

(print name and position)

(date)

In the presence of:








(signature)

(print name)

(date)



SIGNED for and on behalf of

THE BORROWER:








(signature)

(print name and position)

(date)

In the presence of:








(signature)

(print name)

(date)


APPENDIX 1: SCHEDULE

1 EQUIPMENT

Column 1
Column 2
Column 3
Description of Equipment
Quantity
Agreed Value of Equipment
(per item)
Assembled set of Individual Combat Load Carriage Equipment (ICLCE)
5
AUD $500.00

	- 1 -

1	- 1 -

National Third Party Access Code for Natural Gas Pipeline Systems:  Fifth Amending Agreement



BETWEEN

THE COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA
THE STATE OF NEW SOUTH WALES
THE STATE OF VICTORIA
THE STATE OF QUEENSLAND
THE STATE OF SOUTH AUSTRALIA
THE STATE OF WESTERN AUSTRALIA
THE STATE OF TASMANIA
and
THE NORTHERN TERRITORY




Table of Contents
1.	Interpretation	2
2.	Commencement	2
3.	Amendment of section 8	2
4.	Counterparts	2


Date
				2002
Parties

  1. 
The Commonwealth of Australia
  2. 
The State of New South Wales
  3. 
The State of Victoria
  4. 
The State of Queensland
  5. 
The State of South Australia
  6. 
The State of Western Australia
  7. 
The State of Tasmania
  8. 
The Northern Territory
Recitals

  A 
On 7 November 1997, the Parties signed the Natural Gas Pipelines Access Agreement with the objective of establishing a uniform national framework for third party access to natural gas pipelines.
  B 
Under the Natural Gas Pipelines Access Agreement, the Parties agreed upon a uniform "Gas Pipelines Access Law", which included a "National Third Party Access Code for Natural Gas Pipeline Systems".
  C 
In accordance with the Natural Gas Pipelines Access Agreement, the State of South Australia passed the Gas Pipelines Access (South Australia) Act 1997, which applied the Gas Pipelines Access Law (comprising Schedule 1 (Third Party Access to Natural Gas Pipelines) and Schedule 2 (National Third Party Access Code for Natural Gas Pipeline Systems (the Code)) as a law of South Australia.
  D 
In accordance with the Natural Gas Pipelines Access Agreement, each other Party (except the State of Western Australia) has passed application legislation applying the Gas Pipelines Access Law as set out in Schedules 1 and 2 to the Gas Pipelines Access (South Australia) Act 1997, as laws of that Party.  The State of Western Australia has enacted the Gas Pipelines Access (Western Australia) Act 1998, which has essentially identical effect to the Gas Pipelines Access (South Australia) Act 1997 and applies the Gas Pipelines Access Law as set out in Schedules to the Western Australian Act as law of the State of Western Australia.
  E 
Section 6 of Schedule 1 of the Gas Pipelines Access Law and section 9 of the Code establish a procedure whereby the Code may be amended.
  F 
On 15 March 2002, in accordance with section 9 of the Code and section 6(1) of Schedule 1 of the Gas Pipelines Access Law, the National Gas Pipelines Advisory Committee recommended to Relevant Ministers that an amendment be made to the Code.
  G 
The Relevant Ministers executing this Agreement, being not less than two-thirds of all Relevant Ministers, have agreed, in accordance with section 6(3) of Schedule 1 of the Gas Pipelines Access Law, to amend the Code as set out in this Agreement.

Operative Provisions
1. Interpretation
SIGNED by

The Honourable Ian Macfarlane	)
Minister for Industry, Tourism and 	)
Resources of the Commonwealth of 	)
Australia	)

The Honourable Kim Yeadon MP 	)
Minister for Energy of the State of New 	)
South Wales	)

The Honourable Candy Broad MLC	)
Minister for Energy and Resources and	)
Ports of the State of Victoria	)

The Honourable Terry Mackenroth MP,	)
Deputy Premier, Treasurer and Minister 	)
for Sport of the State of Queensland	)

The Honourable Patrick Conlon MP,	)
Minister for Energy of	)
the State of South Australia	)

The Honourable Eric Ripper MLA	)
Deputy Premier, Treasurer and Minister	)
for Energy of the State of Western Australia	)

The Honourable Paul Lennon MHA	)
Minister for Infrastructure, Energy and	)
Resources of the State of Tasmania	)

The Honourable Paul Henderson MLA,	)
Minister for Business, Industry and Resource)
Development of the Northern Territory of 	)
Australia	)


National Third Party Access Code for Natural Gas Pipeline Systems:  Fifth Amending Agreement




lxtm M0111055564v3 304384715    13.06.2002

Page (i)



lxtm M0111055564v3 304384715    13.06.2002

Page 3


Loan Agreement





allens arthur robinson  amending agreement no5.doc  13.6.2002	Page 3

Code means the National Third Party Access Code for Natural Gas Pipeline Systems set out in Schedule 2 to the Gas Pipelines Access (South Australia) Act 1997 (as amended) and Schedule 2 to the Gas Pipelines Access (Western Australia) Act 1998 (as amended);  and
Parties means the parties to this Agreement.
Clause 3 of this Agreement has effect on and from the day on which a copy of this Agreement is published in the South Australian Government Gazette.
Photographic copyright assignment agreement: template
Photographic copyright assignment agreement 

THIS AGREEMENT is made on the [		] day of		200[    ]

BETWEEN:		[Full name to be added	] ABN [ Add relevant ABN  ]
			("the Transferor")

AND:			THE CROWN IN RIGHT OF THE STATE OF TASMANIA
			represented by the Department of [				]
			("the Crown")

NOW IT IS AGREED as follows:

1.	SALE OF THE WORK (Including Copyright)
2.	PAYMENT
3.	DELIVERY OF THE WORK
4.	TRANSFEROR'S COPYRIGHT AND OWNERSHIP WARRANTIES

5.	APPLICABLE LAW
6.	GOODS AND SERVICES TAX
7.	CONTINUING OBLIGATIONS
8.	NOTICES


EXECUTED AS AN AGREEMENT


SIGNED  for and on behalf of the Crown in	) ......................................
in Right of the State of Tasmania			)
by [						]	)
being a duly authorised person in the presence of:	)


.........................................................
Witness

..........................................................
Name of Witness

(Transferor's signing clause)

SIGNED  by [				]	) ......................................
			(Transferor)			)
in the presence of-					)

........................................................
Witness

........................................................
Name of Witness

SCHEDULE


1.	The Work

	[Drafting Note:	Add complete description of the Work]


2.	Addresses
			The Crown	[	]

			The Transferor	[	]

			or as otherwise advised in writing by the respective party.



THIS MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING is made the 	 day of		2005
BETWEEN
THE UNIVERSITY OF MELBOURNE [ABN 84 002 705 224] a body politic and corporate established pursuant to the University of Melbourne Act 1958 of Grattan Street, Parkville, Vic, 3010 (the "University") through the European-Australian Co-operative Centre;
AND
[PARTNER FULL NAME] [Partner ABN], [Partner address] ("[Partner short name]").

RECITALS
A. [insert brief description of Partner]
B. The University has staff with expertise in a range of business management and research disciplines.
C. The parties are interested in exploring the possibility of establishing a cooperative relationship, including the carrying out of Projects relevant to their respective capabilities.
D. Whilst the University and [Partner short name] have acknowledged that this MOU is not intended to set out contractual terms governing the conduct of any Project, it is expected to result in:
* the sharing of relevant information on a confidential basis with the aim of identifying needs and capabilities of both parties;
* the establishment of a working relationship between the parties which is targeted to the parties' specific needs;
* the establishment of Projects of interest to both parties;
* determining the details of such Projects, the Project work plan, funding and the rights to outcomes.

For the purposes of this MOU, "Project" shall mean a collaboration relating to research or business management in the [insert field] field.
1.	SCOPE OF THE PROJECT
2.	COLLABORATION AGREEMENT
3.	REPRESENTATIVE
3.3	The initial Representatives that have been chosen by the parties are:
(a) for the University:
(b)	for [Partner short name]:
[Partner representative]
[Partner address]
E-mail: [representative e-mail]
4. 	CONFIDENTIALITY
4.1 	For the purposes of this MOU, "Confidential Information" means information that:
(a)	is by its nature confidential;
(b) is designated by the parties as confidential; or
(c) the parties know or ought to know is confidential and includes without limitation the terms of this agreement and all information about the parties, their employees, agents, policies and operations which is made available or which becomes known during the term of this agreement or as a result of executing this agreement; 
but does not include information which:
(i)	is or becomes public knowledge other than by breach of this agreement; or
(ii)	has been independently developed or acquired by either party.
4.2 5.	TERMINATION AND AMENDMENT
6.	GENERAL
Executed by the parties:

SIGNED for and on behalf of	)
THE UNIVERSITY OF MELBOURNE	) ............................................................signature
by its authorised Officer	)
) ...........................................................print name

in the presence of:

............................................................. witness signature

............................................................. witness print name
Name of Witness


SIGNED for and on behalf of	)
[PARTNER					)
FULL NAME]	) ............................................................signature
by its authorised Officer	)
	) ...........................................................print name

in the presence of:

............................................................. witness signature

............................................................. witness print name
Name of Witness









2




  MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING

LICENCE AGREEMENT
TimeMap(r) 
Trademark & Computer Software

www.timemap.net


THIS AGREEMENT is made the <date of download of software> 


BETWEEN	THE UNIVERSITY OF SYDNEY a body corporate established pursuant to the University of Sydney Act 1989 of Sydney in the State of New South Wales 2006 (hereinafter referred to as "the University")

AND				The person downloading the software	(The Licensee)


WHEREAS:

A.	The University is the owner of the Intellectual Property.

B.	The Licensee wishes to obtain a licence from the University to use the Intellectual Property for the purposes set forth in this Agreement.


1.	DEFINITIONS

	In this Agreement, except insofar as the context or subject matter otherwise indicates or requires, the following terms and expressions shall have the following meanings:

	"Agreement" means this Agreement and the Schedules hereto.

	"Intellectual Property" means the trade mark, patents, copyrights, know-how, registered designs or other like rights particulars.

	"Licence Fee" means the fee payable to the University for licensing the Licensee to use the Intellectual Property, which fees are set forth in Schedule 4.

	"Licensed Product" means the TimeMap(r) computer software and Intellectual Property. including, but not restricted to, the computer software set forth in Schedule 1. No use of the Trademark unless approved by the University of Sydney

	"Parties" means each of the University and the Licensee and "Party" means either one of them as the context requires.

	"Products" includes technologies, devices, or techniques.






2.	GRANT


3.	LICENCE FEE & ANNUAL MAINTENANCE UPDATE FEE
		
		Bank Account Name:	The University of Sydney 
		Bank Account Number: 50 944 8377
		Name of Bank:		National Australia Bank (NAB)
		BSB:				082 369
		Swift code:			NATAAU3302S
		Address of Bank:		Science Road, University of Sydney 2006.
4.	TERM


5	TERRITORY

	Worldwide.

6.	COPIES

7.	SECURITY

8.	TITLE AND WARRANTY
9.	TERMINATION

10.	GENERAL
10.1	Assignment
10.2	Applicable Law
10.3	Conciliation
10.4	Severability

EXECUTED by the Parties as an Agreement on the date first appearing:


SIGNED for and on behalf of the THE UNIVERSITY OF SYDNEY by an authorised delegate in the presence of:

)
)
)
)














Delegate Name (printed).................................................



Title:..................................................................
Witness Name (printed)






SIGNED for and on behalf of the              by an authorised delegate in the presence of:

)
)
)
)














Delegate Name (printed).................................................



Title:..................................................................
Witness Name (printed)







SCHEDULE 1
Licensed Product 
Clause 1

TimeMap(r) - compiled program and supporting files as listed below. TimeMap (http://www.timemap.net) is a methodology for recording time-stamped spatial data and delivering it through distributed servers, time-enabled maps and map animations.

Any or all of:

1. TMJava applet
2. TMJava servlets 
3. TMWin program
4. TMGeoReg program
5. TMLocate program


SCHEDULE 2
Licensed Computer Systems 
Clause 2.4

Choose one of the following options

1. Single copy licences: 
Specific computer systems(s) as follows:
Make/Model:.........................................................................................................
S/N:....................................................................................................................
Host Name (for servers):.........................................................................................

2. Site licence:
Computer location, organisation, or work group: Any computer belonging to the licensee
Designation of site:.................................................................................................


SCHEDULE 3
Additional Uses 
Clause 2.3

Specify additional permissible product use ( uses which do not fall within testing, personal or  demonstration use) 

None, unless individually negotiated 

SCHEDULE 4
Licence Fee & Annual Maintenance Update Fee
Clause 3

1.	Licence Fee:	$ <To be negotiated>Payable on the date of execution of this Agreement
2.	Annual Maintenance Update Fee: $<To be negotiated> payable on the anniversary of the date of 		execution of this Agreement






DATED                                                  2006

PROJECT AGREEMENT
UNDER THE

CRC FOR AN INTERNATIONALLY COMPETITIVE PORK INDUSTRY 


Project #


Pork CRC Ltd



INTRODUCTION	6
1.	Defined terms and interpretation	6
2.	Term	10
PROJECT RESOURCES	10
3.	Company obligations	10
4.	Cash Project Contributions	11
5.	Non-Cash Project Contributions	11
6.	Project Funds	12
7.	Use of Project Funds and other Project Contributions	12
8.	Specified Personnel	12
9.	Assets	13
PROJECT ACCOUNTING AND REPORTING	14
10.	No authority	14
11.	Project Participant accounts	14
12.	Provision of information by Project Participants	14
13.	Accounting for In-Kind Project Contributions	15
14.	Project Leader	15
15.	Project Leader Reporting	15
16.	Parties reporting to the Project Leader	16
PROJECT OUTCOMES & INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY	16
17.	Carrying out the Project	16
18.	Background Intellectual Property	16
19.	Licence to Background IP for Project use	17
20.	Obligations on Project use	17
21.	Licence to Project Participants' Background IP for Commercialisation	18
22.	Licence to Centre IP	18
23.	Acknowledgement	19
24.	Register of Background IP	19
25.	Infringement of Background IP	19
26.	Project IP	19
27.	Variations to Project Shares	19
28.	Vesting of ownership of Project IP	20
29.	Dealing with Project IP	20
30.	Company use of Project IP	20
31.	Project Participants' use of Project IP	21
32.	Decision to protect Project IP	21
33.	Registration in Company name	22
34.	Commercialisation of Project IP	22
35.	Discretion of Company	22
36.	Commercialisation Income	22
37.	Protocol prior to Commercialisation	23
38.	Protocol after Commercialisation commences	24
39.	Commercialisation records	24
40.	Commercialisation Expenses	24
41.	Payment of Net Commercialisation Income	25
ALLOCATION OF RISK	25
42.	Mutual Indemnities	25
43.	Insurance	26
CHANGES AND TERMINATION	26
44.	Amendments to Projects	26
45.	Withdrawal from Project	26
46.	Expulsion from a Project	26
47.	Consequences of withdrawal or expulsion from Project	27
48.	Termination of Participants Agreement	28
49.	Termination of Projects by the Company	28
50.	Consequences of termination of Project	28
51.	Effect of termination of agreement	29
OTHER MATTERS	29
52.	Separate Project financial accounts	29
53.	Student Involvement	30
54.	Publications	31
55.	Confidential Information	32
56.	Public announcements	33
57.	Use of Party's name	33
58.	Conflicts	34
59.	Dispute Resolution	34
60.	GST	35
61.	Force Majeure	36
62.	Notices and other communications	37
63.	Continuing obligations	37
64.	Approvals and consents	37
65.	Assignment	38
66.	Divisional limitation	38
67.	Relationship	38
68.	Sub-contracting	38
69.	Costs	38
70.	Survival	38
71.	Counterparts	39
72.	No merger	39
73.	Entire agreement	39
74.	Further action	39
75.	Severability	39
76.	Waiver	39
77.	Governing law and jurisdiction	39
SCHEDULE 1 - Project Details	41
SCHEDULE 2 - Address For Serving Notices	42
SCHEDULE 3 - Project reporting form	42
SCHEDULE 4 - Request for publication approval form.	42



THIS AGREEMENT is made on the  day of  	2006
BETWEEN:
CRC FOR AN INTERNATIONALLY COMPETITIVE PORK INDUSTRY LTD 
      (the Company)
 and

       (Project Participants)

collectively called the Parties.

BACKGROUND
A. CRC for an Internationally Competitive Pork Industry Ltd is a company limited by guarantee formed to carry out the activities of the CRC for an Internationally Competitive Pork Industry (Centre).  
B. The Company's Governing Board has determined that the Project should be undertaken.
C. The Project Participants and the Company agree to complete the Project in accordance with the following terms and conditions.
THE PARTIES AGREE:
INTRODUCTION
1. Defined terms and interpretation
1.1 In this Agreement:
(1) Applicable Jurisdiction means South Australia.
(2) Asset means an item of real or personal property but does not include Intellectual Property.
(3) Background IP means:
(a) the Intellectual Property specified in the Project Details that a Project Party has agreed to contribute as Background IP to the Project; 
(b) any other Intellectual Property that the Project Party has offered to contribute as Background IP for the Project and has been agreed in writing by all Parties as being accepted as Background IP for the Project, and
(c) for the avoidance of doubt, does not include any Project IP.
(4) Business Day means, in relation to the doing of any action in a place, a weekday other than a public holiday or bank holiday in that place.
(5) Business Hours means from 9.00am to 5.00pm on any Business Day.
(6) Centre Account means the account operated by the Company for the purposes of the Centre.  
(7) Centre IP means IP owned by the Company on trust for all Centre Participants.
(8) Centre Participants means all signatories to the Participants Agreement other than the Company.
(9) Commercialise, in relation to Intellectual Property, means to:
(a) manufacture, sell, hire or otherwise exploit a product or process; or 
(b) to provide a service, incorporating that Intellectual Property; or 
(c) to license any third party to do any of those things; or 
(d) to otherwise license or assign the Intellectual Property, including for the purpose of establishing a separate entity to undertake Commercialisation of Project IP,
regardless of whether any revenue is generated or intended to be generated.
(10) Commercialisation Expenses means expenses incurred by the Company in carrying out Commercialisation of Project IP (not including costs attributed to time spent by its employees) including:
(a) government fees, taxes (other than income and withholding taxes), duties, charges or imposts paid or payable in relation to Commercialisation Income;
(b) costs of registering or otherwise protecting the Project IP, including patent attorney fees;
(c) legal expenses incurred in relation to Commercialising Project IP;
(d) relevant travel, insurance, packaging or transportation costs;
(e) reasonable costs of seeking licensees of the Project IP or other Parties to be involved in Commercialisation of Project IP; and
(f) any other out-of-pocket expenses reasonably incurred by the Company in carrying out Commercialisation of Project IP.
(11) Commercialisation Income means all royalties, licence fees, and other monetary proceeds (including monetary proceeds from the use or disposal of any non-monetary assets) from Commercialisation of Project IP received by or on behalf of the Company.
(12) Commercialisation Plan means a plan specifying the general approach to be adopted by the Company with respect to commercialisation of that Project IP, subject to any obligations of confidentiality owed to third parties, including:
(a) objectives and strategies;
(b) target markets; 
(c) resources to be utilised; and
(d) risks and risk management strategies.
(13) Commonwealth means the Commonwealth of Australia.
(14) Commonwealth Agreement means the Agreement through which the Company, is partially funded by the Commonwealth under the Cooperative Research Centres Program.
(15) Confidential Information means all information that is not in the public domain that is by its nature confidential or that has been designated as confidential by the disclosing Party, and includes all trade secrets, financial information and other commercially or scientifically valuable information of whatever description and in whatever form (whether written or oral, visible or invisible).
(16) Deliverables means the required deliverables for a Project as described in the Project Plan.
(17) Intellectual Property or IP includes all copyright (including rights in relation to phonograms and broadcasts), all rights in relation to inventions (including patents), plant varieties, trade marks (including service marks), designs, circuit layouts, all other rights resulting from intellectual activity in the industrial, scientific, literary or artistic fields and any right to have Confidential Information kept confidential, but does not include Moral Rights as defined by the Copyright Act 1968 (Cth) or rights of performers.
(18) Loss means any liability, loss, harm, damage, cost or expense.
(19) Milestones means the milestones for a Project as set out in the Project Plan.
(20) Net Commercialisation Income means Commercialisation Income for a period in relation to Project IP less payments or reimbursements of Commercialisation Expenses pursuant to clause 40 for that period.
(21) Participants Agreement means the Agreement which sets out the basis on which the Centre will operate.
(22) Party means a party to this Agreement.
(23) Project means the discrete, time-bounded research, training or Commercialisation activity or series of activities described in the Project Details.
(24) Project Budget means the budget for a Project as set out in the Project Plan including any variations to that budget as agreed by the Parties in writing.
(25) Project Commencement Date means the date on which a Project is to commence as set out in the Project Plan.
(26) Project Completion Date means the date on which a Project is to be completed as set out in the Project Plan.
(27) Project Contribution means all of the money, Assets, Specified Personnel, facilities and services to be contributed by the Party to the Project, as set out in the Project Plan, but does not include any Intellectual Property contributed by a Party. 
(28) Project Details means the details in Schedule 1, as amended by the Parties. 
(29) Project Funds means the money to be paid to the Project Participants, for conducting the Project and may include the Commonwealth Funding received by the Company.
(30) Project IP means Intellectual Property developed in the course of carrying out the Project;
(31) Project Leader means the person appointed under clause 14 to act as a leader of a Project.
(32) Project Objectives means the objectives for a Project as set out in the Project Plan.
(33) Project Participants means the Parties other than the Company.
(34) Project Plan means the plan for carrying out a Project as set out in the Project Details including any variations to that plan as agreed by the Parties in writing.
(35) Project Shares means the Parties share of the results of the Project reflecting their Project Contribution as detailed in the Project Details at the start of the Project and adjusted at the end of the Project to reflect actual Project Contributions.
(36) Rules means the constitution, enacting legislation and its provisions, or any other form of provisions or policy statements governing the organisation and operation of a Party.
(37) Specified Division means, in relation to a Project Participant, the division, department or faculty of that Project Participant specified in the Project Details.
(38) Specified Personnel means the personnel of a Party allocated to the Project as part of that Party's Project Contribution or, in the case of the Company, any personnel of the Company. 
(39) Use Field means the purpose for which each Project Participant may use the Project IP as specified in the Project Details but does not include Commercialisation.
(40) Use Field Conditions means any conditions relevant to a Use Field specified in the Project Details.
(41) Valuation Principles means the principles specified the Project Details for valuation of non-cash Project Contributions.
1.2 All monetary amounts referred to in this Agreement will be deemed to be in Australian currency.
2. Term
PROJECT RESOURCES
3. Company obligations
5. Non-Cash Project Contributions6. Project Funds
7. Use of Project Funds and other Project Contributions
8. Specified Personnel
9. Assets
Unless otherwise agreed in writing:
a Project Participant retains legal ownership of any Asset that it provides as part of its Project Contribution; and
the Company retains ownership of any Asset acquired in whole or in part from Project Funds;
of those Assets being referred to in the rest of this clause as a (Contributed Asset).
PROJECT ACCOUNTING AND REPORTING
10. No authority
11. Project Participant accounts
12. Provision of information by Project Participants
13. Accounting for In-Kind Project Contributions
14. Project Leader
15. Project Leader Reporting
16. Parties reporting to the Project Leader
PROJECT OUTCOMES & INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY
17. Carrying out the Project
18. Background Intellectual Property
19. Licence to Background IP for Project use
Each Party grants to the other Parties an irrevocable, non-exclusive, royalty-free, worldwide licence (including a right to sublicense for the purposes of sub-contracting any aspect of the Project) to use that Party's Background IP made available to the Project during the term of the Project for the purposes of carrying out the Project, subject to compliance by those other Parties with clause 20 and any restrictions on its use: 
(1) specified in the Project Details; or, 
(2) in the case of any Background IP not specified in the Project Details, notified in writing to the other Parties at the time of offering such Background IP.
20. Obligations on Project use 
20.1 Where Parties are granted a licence under clause 19 for the use of Background IP contributed by another Party ("the owning Party") for a Project, each of the Parties must: 
(1) use that Background IP only for the purposes of carrying out the Project and not for any other purpose;
(2) keep confidential and not disclose that Background IP or any documents or material containing or referring to that Background IP that may prejudice the subsistence of any Intellectual Property in that Background IP; 
(3) only disclose that Background IP to its
(a) employees and contractors; 
(b) directors and officers; and
(c) students referred to in clause 53.1(5), 
who have a need to know for the purposes of the Project (and only to the extent that each has a need to know) and ensure that those persons comply with the obligations under this clause;
(4) comply with any restrictions on use of the Background IP specified or notified by the owning Party pursuant to clause 19; and
(5) on the contributing Party's request, immediately deliver to the contributing Party all documents or materials containing or referring to the Background IP which are: 
(a) in its possession, power or control; or
(b) in the possession, power or control of persons who have received the Background IP under clause 20.1(3)
except to the extent that it reasonably requires the Background IP for the purpose of performing its obligations or exercising its rights under this Agreement or by law. 
21. Licence to Project Participants' Background IP for Commercialisation
22. Licence to Centre IP 
23. Acknowledgement
24. Register of Background IP
25. Infringement of Background IP
26. Project IP
27. Variations to Project Shares 
27.1 If the Project Contributions contributed by one or more Parties during the Project differ from that specified in the Project Details, each Party's Project Share will be recalculated by the Company in accordance with the following formula as at the end of the Project:
(1) PS = (PC/TPC) x (100%)
where:
(2) PS is the Project Share for a Party; 
(3) TPC is the total of all Parties' Project Contributions made during the Project; and
(4) PC means the Project Contributions of a Party made during the Project,
provided that the deemed monetary valuation of non-cash Project Contributions for the purposes of this clause is made in accordance with the Valuation Principles.
28. Vesting of ownership of Project IP
28.1
29. Dealing with Project IP
30. Company use of Project IP
30.131. Project Participants' use of Project IP
31.1 Each Project Participant has an irrevocable non-exclusive royalty-free right to use the Project IP: 
(1) for the purpose of undertaking the Project in accordance with this Agreement;
(2) for internal non-commercial purposes including research and teaching;
(3) for emergency use where a Project Participant has statutory or regulatory obligations;
(4) for dissemination to a Project Participant's constituent members; or
(5) for any other purpose, other than Commercialisation, within the Project Participant's respective Use Field and subject to any Use Field Conditions;
provided that the Project Participant maintains the confidentiality of Confidential Information and does not prejudice the Company's ability to:
(6) protect the Project IP;
(7) use the Project IP to achieve the Centre Objectives; or
(8) maximise the commercial return from any Project IP that has significant commercial potential; and
provided further that if the Company fails to confirm that it wishes to Commercialise the Project IP within 30 days after enquiry by a Project Participant, the relevant Project Participants must be granted the right to deal with the Project IP in any manner they deem fit on the basis that they indemnify the remaining Parties against all liability arising out of any such Commercialisation.
32. Decision to protect Project IP
33. Registration in Company name
33.1 If patenting or other registrable forms of Intellectual Property protection of Project IP is pursued, such registration:
(1) is to be in the Company's name; and
(2) where required, will identify: 
(a) the inventors of the Project IP; and
(b) the beneficial owners of the Project IP. 
34. Commercialisation of Project IP
34.1 35. Discretion of Company
35.1 
36. Commercialisation Income 
36.1 Subject to clause 40 the Company holds all Commercialisation Income with respect to Project IP on trust for the Project Participants as tenants in common in proportion to their respective Project Shares.
37. Protocol prior to Commercialisation
37.1
38. Protocol after Commercialisation commences
38.1 After commencing Commercialisation of any Project IP:
39. Commercialisation records
40. Commercialisation Expenses 
41. Payment of Net Commercialisation Income
41.1
ALLOCATION OF RISK
42. Mutual Indemnities
43. Insurance
CHANGES AND TERMINATION
44. Amendments to Projects
44.1 45. Withdrawal from Project
46. Expulsion from a Project
46.146.2 For the purposes of clause 46.1, Due Cause means:
(1) failure to make Project Contributions when required by the Project Details; 
(2) unauthorised use or Commercialisation of Intellectual Property; 
(3) any other material breach of this Agreement in relation to the Project or of the Project Details;  
(4) change or proposed change to personnel that is likely to adversely affect the Project; 
(5) failure to remedy a Conflict in relation to the Project under clause 58 to the satisfaction of the Company; 
(6) change in the direct or indirect beneficial ownership or control of the Project Participant in question that would affect its ability to comply with its obligations under this Agreement; 
(7) disposal of whole or any part of the Project Participant's assets, operations or business other than in the ordinary course of business; 
(8) ceasing to carry on business; 
(9) becoming insolvent, bankrupt or being subject to the appointment of a mortgagee, a receiver or manager, or making any arrangement or composition for the benefit of creditors or being the subject of winding up proceedings; or
(10) assignment of its rights or obligations under this agreement other than in accordance with clause 65(assignment).
47. Consequences of withdrawal or expulsion from Project
48. Termination of Participants Agreement
49. Termination of Projects by the Company50. Consequences of termination of Project
OTHER MATTERS
52. Separate Project financial accounts
52.1
53. Student Involvement 
54. Publications
56. Public announcements 
57. Use of Party's name
59. Dispute Resolution 
59.1 60. GST
60.1 In this clause 60:
(1) GST exclusive consideration means the consideration payable or to be provided for a Supply, but for the application of this clause 60;
(2) Recipient means a Party to whom a Supply is made;
(3) Supply means a supply made under or in connection with this Agreement;
(4) Supplier means a Party making a Supply; and
(5) words or expressions that are defined in the A New Tax System (Goods and Services Tax) Act 1999 (Cth) have the same meaning in this clause 60.
60.2 Any consideration to be paid or provided for a Supply, unless specifically described in this agreement as 'GST-inclusive', does not include an amount on account of GST.
60.3 Despite any other provision in this Agreement if a Supplier makes a Supply on which GST is imposed (not being a Supply the consideration for which is specifically described in this Agreement as 'GST-inclusive'):
(1) the GST-exclusive consideration for that Supply, is increased by, and the Recipient must also pay to the Supplier, an amount equal to the GST-exclusive consideration multiplied by the prevailing rate of GST; and
(2) the amount by which the GST-exclusive consideration is increased under clause 60.3(1) must be paid to the Supplier by the Recipient without set-off, deduction or requirement for demand, at the same time as the GST-exclusive consideration is payable or to be provided. 
60.4 If a payment to a Party under this Agreement is a reimbursement or indemnification, calculated by reference to a loss, cost or expense incurred by that Party, then the payment will be reduced by the amount of any input tax credit to which that Party is entitled for that loss, cost or expense.
60.5 A Recipient need not make a payment for a taxable Supply until the Supplier has given the Recipient a tax invoice for the Supply to which the payment relates.
61. Force Majeure
61.1 In this clause 61, a Force Majeure Event affecting a Party means, subject to clause  61.2, anything outside that Party's reasonable control including, but not limited to, fire, storm, flood, earthquake, explosion, war, invasion, rebellion, sabotage, epidemic, labour dispute, labour shortage and failure or delay in transportation and act or omission (including laws, regulations, disapprovals or failures to approve) of any third person (including but not limited to, subcontractors, customers, governments or government agencies).
61.2 If a Party to this Agreement is a government agency it will not be within the reasonable control of that Party merely because that Party is part of the government that has the legal capacity to perform an act or omission that may otherwise constitute a Force Majeure Event. 
61.3 Where a Party is unable, wholly or in part, by reason of a Force Majeure Event, to carry out any obligation under this Agreement (other than an obligation to pay money), and that Party:
(1) gives each other Party prompt notice of that Force Majeure Event including reasonable particulars, and, in so far as known, the probable extent to which it will be unable to perform or be delayed in performing that obligation; and
(2) uses all possible diligence to remove that force majeure as quickly as possible,
that obligation is suspended so far as it is affected by the Force Majeure Event during the continuance of that Force Majeure Event and that Party will be allowed a reasonable extension of time to perform its obligations.
61.4 If, after 30 days, the Force Majeure Event has not ceased, the Parties will meet in good faith to discuss the situation and endeavour to achieve a mutually satisfactory resolution. 
61.5 Nothing in this clause 61:
(1) affects any obligation to pay money; or
(2) requires the settlement of strikes, lockouts or other labour disputes or claims or demands on terms contrary to the Rules or policies of the Party affected.
62. Notices and other communications
62.1 A notice, demand, consent, approval or communication under this Agreement (Notice) must be:
(1) in writing, in English and signed by a person duly authorised by the sender; and
(2) hand delivered or sent by prepaid post or facsimile to the recipient's address for Notices specified in Schedule 2, as varied by any Notice given by the recipient to the sender.
62.2 A Notice given in accordance with clause 62.1 takes effect when taken to be received (or at a later time specified in it), and is taken to be received:
(1) if hand delivered, on delivery;
(2) if sent by prepaid post, on the fifth Business Day after the date of posting (or on the seventh Business Day after the date of posting if posted to or from a place outside Australia);
(3) if sent by facsimile, when the sender's facsimile system generates a message confirming successful transmission of the entire Notice unless, within eight Business Hours after the transmission, the recipient informs the sender that it has not received the entire Notice,
but if the delivery, receipt or transmission is not on a Business Day or is after 5.00pm on a Business Day, the Notice is taken to be received at 9.00am on the next Business Day.
63. Continuing obligations
63.164. Approvals and consents
64.1
66. Divisional limitation
66.167. Relationship
67.1This Agreement constitutes the entire Agreement between the Parties in connection with its subject matter and supersedes all previous Agreements or understandings between the Parties in connection with its subject matter.
74. Further action
74.177. Governing law and jurisdiction
77.1 This Agreement is governed by the law of the Applicable Jurisdiction and each Party irrevocably and unconditionally submits to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of the courts of the Applicable Jurisdiction.

Signed as an Agreement on the		day of 			 2006.


Signed for Pork CRC Ltd by an authorised officer in the presence of


?


Signature of officer


?


Signature of witness

Name of officer (print)





Name of witness (print)

Office held



Signed for [the participant] by an authorised officer in the presence of


?


Signature of officer


?


Signature of witness

Name of officer (print)





Name of witness (print)

Office held



Signed for [the participant] by an authorised officer in the presence of


?


Signature of officer


?


Signature of witness

Name of officer (print)





Name of witness (print)

Office held




SCHEDULE 1 - Project Details





SCHEDULE 2 - Address For Serving Notices 

SCHEDULE 3 - Project reporting form 

SCHEDULE 4 - Request for publication approval form. 

Project Agreement - CRC for an Internationally Competitive Pork Industry


19


3
U:\Project Agreements\project_agreement_blank.doc					 

LICENCE AGREEMENT
THIS DEED is made on 		2004
BETWEEN:
DR JOHANNA VOGEL of 48 Ridgewood Drive, Dawesville, Western Australia ("Licensor")
and the person or entity identified as the Licensee in Section A of the Schedule ("Licensee").
IT IS AGREED as follows.
1. DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATION
The following definitions apply unless the context requires otherwise. 
Licence means the licence granted by the Licensor to the Licensee under this Agreement. 
Site means the location specified in Section B of the Schedule for installation of the Work. 
Special Conditions means any conditions set out in Section F of the Schedule and which are incorporated into this Agreement.
Term means the term of the Licence which is specified in Section C of the Schedule.
Terminating Event means those terminating events specified in Clause 8.1.

Work means the multimedia program entitled "Virtual Language University" in CD-ROM format, created by the Licensor for the purpose of teaching English as a second language, and comprising four units, namely:
1.	Listening
2.	Writing
3.	Grammar; and
4.	Vocabulary
and includes any associated documentation or printed materials.
2. GRANT OF LICENCE
Subject to this Agreement the Licensor grants to the Licensee, who accepts, a personal, non-transferable and non-exclusive Licence to use the Work on the Site.  The Licence does not include a right to sub-licence. 
3. DURATION OF LICENCE
      The Licence commences on the Commencement Date and will continue for the Term.
4. WORK
To the maximum extent permitted by law:
(a) all terms and warranties expressed or implied by any legislation, the common law, equity, trade custom or usage or otherwise in relation to the Licence of the Work, the supply of services under this Agreement or otherwise in connection with this Agreement are expressly excluded: and
(b) the Licensor is not liable in any way for any direct, indirect or consequential loss or loss of profit or damage (including loss of data or damage that may reasonably be supposed to have been in the contemplation of the parties as at the date of this Agreement as a probable result of any act or omission) arising out of or in connection with the Licence of the Work, the supply of services under this Agreement or otherwise in connection with this Agreement, including, without limitation loss or damage caused by:
(i) the Licensor's negligence; or
(ii) any "worm", "virus", "back door" or any computer software routine intended or designed to disable, damage, erase, disrupt or impair the normal operation of computer systems stored on any disk or other storage material supplied to the Licensee.
7. RIGHTS IN THE WORK
(6) All rights (including copyright) in the Work are and remain owned by the Licensor.  
(7) On termination of the Licence for any reason, the Licensee loses all right to use the Work and must immediately return all copies of the Work to the Licensor.
8. MODIFICATIONS AND REVERSE ENGINEERING
10. AMENDMENT
No amendment or variation of this Agreement is valid or binding on a party unless made in writing executed by all parties. 
11. SEVERABILITY OF PROVISIONS
Any provision of this Agreement which is prohibited or unenforceable in any jurisdiction is ineffective as to that jurisdiction to the extent of the prohibition or unenforceability.  That does not invalidate the remaining provisions of this Agreement nor affect the validity or enforceability of that provision in any other jurisdiction. 
12. FURTHER ASSURANCES
14. GOVERNING LAW AND JURISDICTION
The laws of Western Australia govern this Agreement.  Each party submits to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of courts exercising jurisdiction there in connection with matters concerning this Agreement.  The 1980 United Nations Convention on Contracts for the International Sale of Goods does not apply to this Agreement. 
15. COUNTERPARTS

THE SCHEDULE

Section A LICENSEE


Section B SITE


Section C TERM


Section D LICENCE FEE


Section E NUMBER OF COPIES OF THE WORK


SECTION F	SPECIAL CONDITIONS






EXECUTED AS A DEED

SIGNED by the said JOHANNA VOGEL in her capacity as Licensor in the presence of:
)
)
)
)
)




______________________________
(Signature of witness)




______________________________
(Name of witness in full)



______________________________
(Address of witness)





______________________________
(Occupation of witness)




SIGNED for and on behalf of the Licensee by [                 ] in the presence of:
)
)
)
)
)




______________________________
(Signature of witness)




______________________________
(Name of witness in full)



______________________________
(Address of witness)





______________________________
(Occupation of witness)







LICENCE AGREEMENT

Between:
DR JOHANNA VOGEL
 ("the Licensor")

and
THE PARTY NAMED IN ITEM 1 OF THE SCHEDULE
 ("the Licensor")

JACKSON McDONALD
Barristers & Solicitors
81 St Georges Terrace
PERTH, Western Australia 6000

Tel: 9426.6611    Fax: 9321.2673
REF:DJC/2006084 



- 2 -

		

SCHEDULE S8 

ESCROW AGREEMENT

This ESCROW AGREEMENT is made the  ..........................................  day of  ...........................................................................20...........
Between  .......................................................................................................................................................................................................
[insert name, and A.C.N, if applicable] (in this Escrow Agreement called the "Escrow Agent") of the first part

and  ...............................................................................................................................................................................................................
[insert name, and A.C.N, if applicable and GITC Agreement Number]
(in this Escrow Agreement called "the Contractor") of the second part

and.................................................................................................................................................................................................................
[insert name of Government Party] (in this Escrow Agreement referred to as "the Customer") of the third part

Whereas:

A.	By this Escrow Agreement made on the ........................ day of  ............................................... 20.......... the Contractor has agreed to grant a License to the Customer to use the Licensed Software.

B.	The Contractor and the Customer have agreed to appoint an escrow agent and the Escrow Agent has agreed to act as Escrow Agent and to hold the Source Code for the Licensed Software on the following terms and conditions.

NOW THIS ESCROW AGREEMENT WITNESSES:

1.	Interpretation

1.1	In this Escrow Agreement the following words have the following meaning:

	"Contract Specifications" means the totality of any technical or descriptive specifications of functional, operational, performance or other characteristics required of the Licensed Software provided by a Party under the Customer Contract and may include:
(a) any specifications agreed to by the Customer and the Contractor in the performance of their obligations under and in accordance with the terms of the Customer Contract;
(b) any specifications detailed or referred to by the Customer in the General Order and/or applicable Module Order; and/or
(c) those specifications generally published or made publicly available by the Contractor which specifically relate to the Licensed Software under a Customer Contract,
and to the extent that there is any inconsistency between the Contract Specifications referred to in (a), (b) and (c), the priority shall be (a), (b) and (c) in that order from highest to lowest.

	"Customer Contract" means the contract between the Customer and Contractor under which the license for the Licensed Software was granted.

	"Defect" means a defect, error or malfunction that causes the Licensed Software to not comply with or not perform in accordance with the Contract Specifications when operated in accordance with the Contract Specifications;

	"Escrow Fee" means the fee set out in Attachment 1;

	"Licensed Software" means the software specified in Attachment 2 and includes any Update or New Release of that software provided to the Customer under the Customer Contract and any material related to the Licensed Software such as, but not limited to, flow charts, logic diagrams and listings that the Contractor makes generally commercially available from time to time;

	"License Period" has the same meaning as it has in the Customer Contract;

	"New Release" means software (including the latest current version) which has been produced primarily to extend, alter or improve the Software, as the case may be, by providing additional functionality or performance enhancement (whether or not Defects in the Licensed Software are also corrected) while still retaining the original designated purpose of the Software.

	"Source Code" means the Licensed Software expressed in human-readable language which is necessary for understanding, maintaining, modifying, correcting and enhancing the Licensed Software and that is deposited with the Escrow Agent in accordance with this Escrow Agreement;

	"Supporting Material" means all of the material and data developed and used in and for the purpose of creating the Licensed Software including (but not limited to) compiled object code, tapes, operating manuals and other items listed in Attachment 3;

	"System" means:
(a) the Customer's group of operationally related hardware and software; and
(b) the system the Contractor is to provide that complies with the Customer Contract.

	"Virus" means a computer program, code, device, product or component that is designed to:
(a) prevent, inhibit or impair the performance of Licensed Software (in accordance with its Contract Specifications) or the System; or
(b) facilitate or permit any authorized access to, or otherwise adversely impact on the security of the System.

	"Update" means software which has been produced primarily to overcome Defects in, or to improve the operation of, the Licensed Software without significantly altering the Licensed Software Specifications whether or not the Licensed Software has also been extended, altered or improved by providing additional functionality or performance enhancement;

1.2	In this Escrow Agreement, unless the contrary intention appears:
	(a)	monetary references are references to Australian currency;
	(b)	the clause and sub-clause headings are for convenient reference only and have no effect in limiting or extending the language of the provisions to which they refer;
	(c)	a cross reference to a clause number is a reference to all its sub-clauses;
	(d)	words in the singular number include the plural and vice versa;
	(e)	words importing a gender include any other gender;
	(f)	a reference to a person includes a partnership and a body whether corporate or otherwise;
	(g)	a reference to a clause or sub-clause is a reference to a clause or sub-clause of this Escrow Agreement;
	(h)	a reference to an Attachment is a reference to an Attachment to this Document;
	(i)	where a word or phrase is given a particular meaning, other parts of speech and grammatical forms of that word or phrase have corresponding meanings.

3.	Appointment of Escrow AgentThis Escrow Agreement is in force until the Source Code and Supporting Material is released in accordance with this Escrow Agreement or the Escrow Agreement is otherwise terminated.

The Escrow Agent is hereby appointed jointly by the Customer and the Contractor and, subject to the terms and conditions of this Escrow Agreement, is granted full power and authority to act on behalf of each Party to this Escrow Agreement.

4.	Contractor's Obligations
5.	Escrow Agent's Obligations
6.	Escrow Fee and Expenses
7.	Testing and Verification

8.	Release of the Source Code and Supporting Material
13.1	The laws of the State of Queensland govern this Escrow Agreement and the Parties submit to the non-excusive jurisdiction of the courts of Queensland. 
14.	Variation and Waiver
If any part of this Escrow Agreement is void or voidable, then that part is severed from the Customer Contract but without affecting the continued operation of the remainder of the Customer Contract.
17.	Notices

Such notice or other communication is deemed to have been duly received:
(a)	if delivered by hand - at the time when the first Party holds a receipt for that document signed by a person apparently employed at that address for service; 
(b)	if sent by post - at the time when, in the ordinary course of the post, it would have been delivered at the address to which it is sent;
(c)	if sent via facsimile - at the time when the machine on which the notice is sent reports in writing that the notice has been transmitted satisfactorily; or
(a) if sent via electronic mail or other electronic means - at the time when the other Party acknowledges receipt by any means.

Escrow Agent:
       Physical address:
Postal address:
Phone number:
Fax number:
Email address:

Contractor:
       Physical address:
Postal address:
Phone number:
Fax number:
Email address:

Customer:
       Physical address:
Postal address:
Phone number:
Fax number:
Email address:

The Parties to this Escrow Agreement have executed the Agreement on the dates set out below.



EXECUTED AS AN ESCROW AGREEMENT

EXECUTION BY ESCROW AGENT

Signed, Sealed and Delivered
For and on behalf of 

..........................................................................................
(insert Escrow Agent's name; ACN & ABN)

in accordance with s.127 of the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth)

this ............... day of ..................................................20........

by

...........................................................................................
(insert name of Director)

..........................................................................................
(insert name of Director/Secretary)

in the presence of:

.........................................................................................
[insert name of witness]

)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)














.....................................................................
(signature of Director)

.....................................................................
(signature of Director/Secretary)



.....................................................................
(signature of witness)

EXECUTION BY CONTRACTOR

Signed, Sealed and Delivered
For and on behalf of 

..........................................................................................
(insert Contractor's name; ACN & ABN)

in accordance with s.127 of the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth)

this ............... day of ..................................................20........

by

...........................................................................................
(insert name of Director)

..........................................................................................
(insert name of Director/Secretary)

in the presence of:

.........................................................................................
[insert name of witness]

)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)













.....................................................................
(signature of Director)

.....................................................................
(signature of Director/Secretary)



.....................................................................
(signature of witness)



EXECUTION BY CUSTOMER 

Signed, Sealed and Delivered
For and on behalf of the 

...............................................................................
(insert name of Customer)

by

...............................................................................
(insert name of Customer representative)

this ............ day of ..........................................20.......


In the presence of:

..............................................................................
(insert name of witness)

)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)

)
)
)
)










.................................................................
(signature of Customer representative)






.................................................................
(signature of witness)


Where an attorney or other agent executes this Escrow Agreement or affixes a seal on behalf of a Contractor, the form of execution must indicate the source of this authority and such authority must be in the form of a deed and a certified copy thereof provided to the Customer.


ATTACHMENT 1

Escrow Agreement

Schedule of Escrow Fees


DETAILS OF ESCROW FEES:

Application Fee (payable first year only):

* Application and processing of Standard Escrow Agreement
or
* Application and processing of non-standard Escrow Agreement


Annual Deposit Fee:

Additional Charges:
* Additional units of Escrow Storage
* Add or replace material to existing Deposit Package
* Each additional party to this Agreement

Verification Release Fee:
* Release for testing and verification pursuant to clause 7 of the Escrow Agreement
 
Deposit Back Release Fee
* Controlled release and delivery of Deposit Package to Customer, pursuant to Clause 8 of the Escrow Agreement

Further Information:
* Courier Costs to be met by the requesting party.
* Fees may be reviewed annually as at each anniversary of the Escrow Agreement and notice of any increase / decrease in fees shall be provided in writing at least 30 days prior to the anniversary date.

Attachment 2
Escrow Agreement


DETAILS OF LICENSED SOFTWARE TO BE HELD IN ESCROW:


Source Code:


...............................................................................................................................................................................................................

...............................................................................................................................................................................................................

...............................................................................................................................................................................................................

...............................................................................................................................................................................................................

...............................................................................................................................................................................................................

...............................................................................................................................................................................................................



Flow Charts:	................................................................................................................................................................................


Diagrams: 	................................................................................................................................................................................


Listings: 	.................................................................................................................................................................................


ATTACHMENT 3
Escrow Agreement


SUPPORTING MATERIAL

Insert details of supporting material relevant to the Licensed Software, for example:


* technical documentation sufficient to allow a competent computer programmer to understand and maintain the version of the software to which the documentation relates.

* relevant maintenance tools and compilers and assemblers (if standard tools, description thereof will suffice) and third party software utilities.

* description of code generation. 

* description of third party software required for support and availability thereof.

* identification of key personnel involved with the development of the software.

* operational manuals, listings, flow charts etc.

* details of machine/processor/system configuration.



________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
Schedule S8 - Escrow Agreement	GITC V5.01	Page 1






FUNDING AGREEMENT DEED


BETWEEN


COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA
represented by the Australian Agency for International Development
ABN 62 921 558 838
and


Organisation Name
ABN xx xxx xxx xxx	
FOR

Community Call to Action
AUSAID AGREEMENT 00000



DEED made                                 day of                                 [           ]
BETWEEN:
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA represented by the Australian Agency for International Development ("AusAID"), ABN 62 921 558 838, of the Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade, 
AND
Organisation Name, ABN xx xxx xxx xxx of Street Address (the "Organisation").
RECITALS:
A. AusAID wishes to provide the Organisation with Funds to undertake an Activity. 
B. The Organisation wishes to accept the Funds subject to the terms and conditions in this Deed.
OPERATIVE:
AusAID and the Organisation promise to carry out and complete their respective obligations in accordance with this Deed including the Deed Conditions, schedules and any annexes contained herein.



IN WITNESS whereof this Deed has been executed by the Commonwealth, by an authorised officer, and has been executed by the Organisation by its authorised officer.
SIGNED
for and on behalf of the
COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA
represented by the Australian Agency for International Development (AusAID) by
Name, Position, Section
			
Name and Position	Signature
FMA Act s.44 Delegate
in the presence of -
			
Name of Witness	Signature of Witness
(Print)

SIGNED
for and on behalf of
Organisation Name by
			
Name and Position	Signature
(Print)
By executing this Deed the signatory warrants that he/she is duly authorised to execute this Deed on behalf of the Organisation.
in the presence of  -
			
Name of Witness	Signature of Witness
(Print)

DEED CONDITIONS
1. INTERPRETATION
1.1 Definitions
In this Deed, including the recitals unless the context otherwise requires:
"Activity" means the activity Agreement Title described in the Activity Proposal for which the Funds are provided. 
"Activity Proposal" means the specific tasks and budget associated with the Activity included as Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
"Agreement" means this Deed including all Parts and any schedules and annexes.
"Agreement Material" means all material created or required to be developed or created as part of, or for the purpose of undertaking the Activity, including documents, equipment, information data, sounds and images stored by any means.
"Business Day" means a day on which AusAID is open for business.
"Commonwealth" means Commonwealth of Australia or AusAID, as appropriate. 
"Deed" means this Agreement comprising these Deed Conditions, schedules and any annexes.
"Fraudulent Activity", "Fraud" or "Fraudulent" means dishonestly obtaining a benefit by deception or other means. 
"Funds" means the amount of money as specified in clause titled 'Funds and Payment' of this Agreement that has been approved by AusAID and paid to the Organisation subject to the conditions outlined in this Agreement for the Activity.
"Independently Audited" means financial records audited by a certified financial professional that is in no way linked or associated with the Activity or the Parties to this Agreement. 
"Partner Government" means the Government of the Partner Country.
"Partner Country" means the country or countries in which the Activity is to be undertaken in whole or in part.
      "Party" means AusAID or the Organisation.
"Prior Material" means all material developed by the Organisation or a third party independently from the Activity whether before or after commencement of the Activity.




"Relevant List" means the lists of terrorist organisations made under Division 102 of the Criminal Code Act 1995 (Cth) and the Charter of the United Nations Act 1945 (Cth) posted at:http://www.nationalsecurity.gov.au/agd/www/nationalsecurity.nsf/AllDocs/95FB057CA3DECF30CA256FAB001F7FBD?OpenDocument and http://www.dfat.gov.au/icat/UNSC_financial_sanctions.html#3
"Similar List" means any similar list to the World Bank List maintained by any other donor of development funding. 
"World Bank List" means a list of organisations maintained by the World Bank in its "Listing of Ineligible Firms" or "Listings of Firms, Letters of Reprimand" posted at: http://web.worldbank.org/external/default/main?theSitePK=84266&contentMDK=64069844&menuPK=116730&pagePK=64148989&piPK=64148984
1.2 Deed prevails
If there is any inconsistency (whether expressly referred to or to be implied from this Deed or otherwise) between the provisions of the Deed Conditions and those of the schedules and any annexes, the schedules and any annexes are to be read subject to the Deed Conditions and the provisions of the Deed Conditions prevail to the extent of the inconsistency. 
2. TERM OF THE AGREEMENT
3. NOTICES
AusAID:
To:	Title First Name Surname
Director, NGOs and Community Engagement Section
Postal Address: 	Australian Agency for International Development
GPO Box 887
CANBERRA  ACT  2601  AUSTRALIA
Street Address:	255 London Circuit
CANBERRA  ACT  2601  AUSTRALIA
Facsimile:	(02) 6206 4949

Organisation: 	
To:	Title First Name Surname
Position
Postal Address:	Postal Address
Street Address: 	Street Address
Facsimile:  	Fax

4. GENERAL CONDITIONS
5. DEED AMENDMENTS
6. PROCUREMENT OF GOODS
7. MONITORING AND EVALUATION 
8. INDEMNITY
9. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS
10. COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS, GUIDELINES AND POLICIES 
11. TERMINATION 
12. ACCOUNTS AND RECORDS
13. AusAID USE OF AGREEMENT INFORMATION
14. REPORTS
Email: cc2a@ausaid.gov.au
in the following format: 
(a) one bound hard copy; and 
(b) one electronic version in PDF (Portable Document Format). 
15. FUNDS AND PAYMENT
15.1 Funds up to a maximum of [Insert currency and value], plus GST if any up to a maximum amount of [Insert currency and 10% of value if this is an Australian Organisation only] shall be payable as an acquittable grant by AusAID in milestones divided as follows:

Milestone description
Milestone Number
Amount of Funds
Refer to Clause 15.2
of this Agreement
1
Insert currency and value
xxxx
2
Insert currency and value
xxxx
3
Insert currency and value
15.2 Milestone1 shall be payable by AusAID within thirty (30) days of the date of this Agreement and receipt of a valid invoice. Subsequent milestones shall be payable subject to the provision of a statement of acquittal against the budget in the Activity Proposal, , a valid invoice and subject to satisfactory progress as determined by AusAID. The statement of acquittal must be signed by the senior financial officer or the head of the Organisation indicating that the Funds being acquitted have been expended, in accordance with the terms of this Agreement. 
16. CLAIMS FOR PAYMENT
16.1 Invoices must be submitted when due in accordance with this Agreement, in a form identifying this Agreement title and Agreement number 00000.  Invoices must also contain the Payment Event number(s) notified by AusAID.
16.2 All invoices must be made to:
Chief Finance Officer
Australian Agency for International Development
GPO Box 887
CANBERRA  ACT  2601 AUSTRALIA
16.3 Invoices should be sent to the above address. Alternatively AusAID will accept electronic invoices. These can be sent to accountsprocessing@ausaid.gov.au
16.4 Where Australian GST applies to this Agreement all invoices must be in the form of a valid tax invoice. Invalid tax invoices will be returned to organisations. Information on what constitutes a valid tax invoice can be found at http://www.ato.gov.au/businesses/content.asp?doc=/content/50913.htm

SCHEDULE 1 - ACTIVITY PROPOSAL
TO FUNDING AGREEMENT DEED NUMBER 00000

(Insert Activity Proposal)







Please attach the appropriate EFT Direct Credit Payment Form to the end of the Funding Agreement

Domestic/International EFT Forms are available at http://intranet/C19/Forms/default.aspx




PROFESSIONAL TRAINING AGREEMENT

BETWEEN


SUPERVISING SURVEYOR

AND A

CANDIDATE REGISTERED WITH THE TASMANIAN LAND SURVEYORS ACCREDITATION BOARD








Tasmanian Land Surveyors Accreditation Board

Institution of Surveyors (Tasmanian Division)





PROFESSIONAL TRAINING AGREEMENT1

1.	PURPOSE

This agreement records the training programme to be undertaken by (_______________), a candidate registered with the Tasmanian Land Surveyors Accreditation Board (TLSAB), under the guidance of the supervising surveyor (________________).

The supervising surveyor and the candidate should review the relevant legislation and any guidelines published by the Tasmanian Land Surveyors Accreditation Board, particularly:
1. The Surveyors Act 2002.
2. The Surveyors Regulations 2003.
3. The TLSAB "Guidelines for Candidates Seeking a Certificate of Competency Leading to Registration Under the Surveyors Act 2002".

Successful completion of the training programme should fully prepare a candidate for examination by the TLSAB.

2.	THE SUPERVISING SURVEYOR

Describe the supervising surveyor by name, address and qualifications. Give a brief record of experience and appointments.  List membership of professional associations.

3.	THE CANDIDATE

Describe the candidate by name, address and qualifications. Make reference to any academic records and experience in surveying contained in attachments.

4.	THE COMPANY

Describe the company by listing principals, areas of operation, types of work undertaken, equipment and resources, and any particular opportunities or potential lack of opportunities for the candidate. 



5.	ESSENCE OF AGREEMENT


Note here if the Agreement applies to periods of experience that do not meet the normal minimum requirement specified in the Surveyors Regulations 2003







6.	CANDIDATE'S COMPETENCIES (INITIALLY)

Describe the competencies, experience and knowledge at the start of the training period here. If that is not practical, provide them on an attachment and refer to it at paragraph 3. This statement will assist the preparation of the training programme and its time schedule.



7.	SCOPE OF TRAINING

Append to the signed Agreement (as "Attachment A") section 5 of the Guidelines for Supervising Surveyors, annotated if required to detail the training to be provided under this Agreement.



8 	LEVEL OF SUPERVISION

Append to the signed Agreement (as "Attachment B") section 6 of the Guidelines for Supervising Surveyors, annotated as required to detail the level of supervision to be provided under this Agreement.

Strict supervision can only be relaxed as the candidate demonstrates that it is appropriate to do so. The candidate's development depends on a progressively reduced level of supervision.

9.	EXCLUSIONS

If the company does not carry out some types of work (or some components of work), or use some type of equipment, which are essential or desirable for the candidate's development, they should be itemised. The responsibility for attaining this experience should be allocated and if it is to be included within this training agreement the solution should be described. If the excluded training is to be achieved through another surveyor and company but within the ambit of this agreement, the responsibility of the supervising surveyor and the other surveyor should be set out.



10	TIME SCHEDULE 

It is recommended that the agreement include a time schedule targeting dates for achievement of each of the competencies described in a "Scope of Training" (see Appendix A for an example).  This will allow both parties to monitor progress of the training, correct any identified problems and to understand the magnitude of the task from the start. The candidate should participate in the preparation of the time schedule.   Attach the time schedule as Attachment C to the signed Agreement.



11	RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE SUPERVISING SURVEYOR

The responsibilities of the supervising surveyor under this agreement are stated in section 7 of the Guidelines for Supervising Surveyors.  Append a copy, annotated as required, as attachment D to the signed Agreement.


12.	RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE CANDIDATE

The responsibilities of the candidate under this agreement are stated in section 8 of the Guidelines for Supervising Surveyors.  Append a copy, annotated as required, as attachment E to the signed Agreement.


13	ACCOUNTABILITY AND REPUTATION

It is recognised that the candidate (during this agreement and after accreditation) is a reflection on the supervisor and on the company (in fieldnotes, project work and direct relations with the client and the public). The candidate's training is at least as important to the supervisor as the successful completion of survey jobs. The supervisor and company will provide every possible tuition, guidance and opportunity, but the candidate will only be progressed to the next stage when ability is proven.

Despite any intention of the candidate to specialise once accredited by the Board, this training must give a balanced general training in all aspects of cadastral work. Competency in all aspects must be demonstrated before the candidate should be recommended as competent to present for examination.

14.	TRAINING REPORTS

The candidate and the supervising surveyor will maintain the records required by section 9 of the Guidelines for Supervising Surveyors and will submit training reports to the Board as required.




15.		CERTIFICATION

We the abovenamed certify our acceptance of this professional training agreement.

Dated this (_____) day of *, Two Thousand and ** (20**).


____________________________________________________________________	
Supervising Surveyor 	Candidate		Date


_____________________________________________________________________Witness 									 Witness




Approved by the Tasmanian Land Surveyors Accreditation Board


_____________________________________________________________________
Chairman			Secretary		Date




Registered......../......../.......

APPENDIX A
TIME SCHEDULE OF PROFESSIONAL TRAINING PROGRAM

SAMPLE



QUARTER
TOPIC
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
Safe Working Practices

*
t
t
t
t
t
t
Basic Field skills
t
t
*
t
t
t
t
t
Error elimination

t
*
t
t
t
t
t
Rural cadastral pickup
t
t
t
*
t
t
t
t
Urban cadastral pickup


t
t
t
*
t
t
Geodetic connections and computations 
t
t
t
*
t
t
t
t
Use of GPS




t
t
*
t
Achievement of accuracy
t
t
t
*
t
t
t
t
Team leadership (field)

t
t
*
t
t
t
t
Survey document search



t
t
t
*
t
Survey computations
t
*
t
t
t
t
t
t
Field notes
t
t
*
t
t
t
t
t
Plan drafting


t
t
*
t
t
t
Building set-out w.r.t property boundaries



t
t
*
t
t
Calibration
t
t
t
t
t
*
t
t
Client instructions & liaison





t
t
*
Strata Plans, Survey-strata plans





t
t
*
Repegs, idents



t
t
*
t
t
Office procedures (quality)



t
t
t
t
*
Total  Subdivision Process





t
t
*
Knowledge of Acts etc
t
t
t
t
*
t
t
t
Professional practice, ethics


t
t
t
t
t
*
Experience with general law  land






t
t

Legend

t	Means initial or ongoing training will be included in this quarter.
*	Means the candidate should attain sufficient competence for accreditation by this quarter.

Note: Organisations may choose to amend this schedule for each agreement, or may choose to adopt their own graduate training program.
DRAFT NUMBER 11.1.1998Guidelines for Supervising Surveyors

1.	Introduction1.INTRODUCTION

These guidelines are to inform supervising surveyors of their obligations and responsibilities in the training of candidates under a Professional Training Agreement.

Professional Training Agreements are taken very seriously by the Board.  Although the Board conducts final examinations of candidates prior to granting Certificates of Competency, it can only ever be a general indication of the competence of the candidates.  The real tests occur during the life of the Professional Training Agreement where the level of knowledge and character necessary to become a professional surveyor is determined by the supervising surveyor.  It is only when a candidate has achieved that standard in the mind of the supervisor that approval should be given for the candidate to present to the Board in the final examinations.  Poorly presented candidates reflect on the reputation of the supervising surveyor.

During the training agreement and after registration, the graduate surveyor is a reflection of the supervisor and on the company.  The supervisor and company should provide every possible tuition, guidance and opportunity and the candidate should only be progressed to the next stage when ability is proven.

Despite any intention of the candidate to specialise once registered, the training must give a balanced general training in all aspects of cadastral work.  Competency in all aspects must be demonstrated before the candidate is recommended for the examination.

These guidelines should be read in conjunction with the Surveyors Act 2002, the Surveyors Regulations 2003 and the Board's "Guidelines for Candidates Seeking a Certificate of Competency Leading to Registration Under the Surveyors Act 2002".



2.	Definitions2.DEFINITIONS

In these guidelines the following expressions have the following meanings:

?  "Board" means the Tasmanian Land Surveyors Accreditation Board.

? "Candidate" means a undergraduate or graduate surveyor who is a party to a Professional Training Agreement.

? "Supervising Surveyor" or "Supervisor" means a registered land surveyor who agrees to supervise a candidate under a Professional Training Agreement.



3.	The Professional Training Agreement3.THE PROFESSIONAL TRAINING AGREEMENT

The purpose of the professional training agreement (PTA) is to provide the candidate with a structured training program of education and professional development.  The PTA should be structured so as to enable the candidate to progress to the level of a competent professional surveyor in an efficient and effective manner.  The PTA should take into account local conditions and specialisations.  It should be prepared by the supervising surveyor in consultation with the candidate.



4.	Competency Standards4.COMPETENCY STANDARDS

The Institution of Surveyors Australia Incorporated (ISA) in conjunction with the Reciprocating Surveyors' Boards of Australia and New Zealand has developed "National Competency Standards for Professional Surveyors".  While those standards (published in July 1996) do not specifically deal with cadastral surveys, these guidelines are based on those general standards.

In particular, pages 51 through 66 of those National Competency Standards detail the necessary "Key Competencies" for stage 2 (equivalent to the period of a professional training agreement).

Supervisors are to ensure that candidates achieve the level of competency and professional development required by the Board as outlined herein and in the competency based standards for surveyors.  Candidates should be exposed to a variety of surveys and challenged by difficult and complex situations.  Supervisors are to ensure that any deficiencies in the candidate's skills are rectified.

The training should be broadly based, not specialised.  The training subjects that should be covered are detailed in guideline 5.  Some require full competence while others only require an awareness.

Two topics deserve special mention as they are vital to the ultimate professionalism of every surveyor-

? Professional ethics should be impressed on the candidate both by example and by instruction throughout the period of the PTA; and

? Leadership is a quality necessary to all surveyors.


5.	Skills and knowledge to be demonstrated5.SKILLS TO BE TAUGHT

In transforming the generic competencies to the specific cadastral area, the candidate should demonstrate the following competencies and, where appropriate, receive such training as is needed to acquire these competencies:

5.1	Safety
-	Safe working practices.  The learning of safe working practices must precede any other training.	

5.2	Basic Practical Field Skills
-	Linear measurements using steel band and electronic distance measuring equipment,
-		Levelling, theodolite angle measurement, total stations
-		Global Positioning Systems, including real-time kinematic and differential GPS using a commercially broadcast correction.
-		Electronic and manual methods of data recording,
-		Placement and referencing of boundary and general survey marks,
-		Independent checking of observations and error-elimination procedures,
-		Use and maintenance of tools, equipment, and vehicles,
-		Safety procedures and safe work practices.

5.3	 Re-Establishment Of Alignments
-	Location of old survey marks and occupation
-	Re-establishment of title boundaries through the analysis of available evidence,
-	Determination of adoptions based on the principles associated with crown boundaries, previous surveys, survey marks, and occupation.

5.4	 Map, Geodetic And Height Datums
-	Field surveys based on the Australian Geodetic Datum, its derivation the Australian Map Grid, and the Australian Height Datum. 
-	The Geocentric Datum Australia.  
-	The dependence of Global Positioning System surveys upon these datums.

5.5	 Accuracy
-	The standards of accuracy required in field surveys.
-	How to achieve the necessary standard in each situation encountered.

5.6	 Team Leadership
-	Staff supervision and field party leadership,
 -	Responsible use of vehicles and equipment,
 -	Bushcraft, especially in remote areas,
 -	Responsibility for the team.

5.7	 Survey Information
-	Searching and interpretation of title and survey information from the appropriate sources. 
-	The relevance and availability and use of this analogue and digital information, (not necessarily familiarity with the physical actions of obtaining the information).

5.8	 Survey Computations
-	Computer hardware and software and their applications to surveying and a surveying practice in general.
-	The application of general survey computations learned in the university course.
-	Calculation of re-establishment of cadastral alignments:-
*	including distribution of original errors into the most probably correct places;
*	achieving a best fit of boundaries to available original marks and dimensions; and
*	taking into account legal implications.

5.9	 Drafting
-	Familiarity with the different requirements (regulations, guidelines and conventions) for drafting plans under the various land tenure Acts - sufficient to instruct and control the drafting, not necessarily enough to physically draft the plans personally.

5.10 Documentation
-	Preparation of the other survey and business documentation related to surveys (eg field notes, sketch plans, applications, reports and correspondence).

5.11 Calibration
-	Understanding of the need for repeated calibration of equipment, and competency in the calibration of all equipment and instruments used.

5.12 Ethics
-	Ethics, as apply to a professional person generally, and as apply to a registered land surveyor in particular. 

5.13 Statutory Common Law Requirements
-	Familiarity with the various Acts, regulations, directions, guidelines and manuals relevant to a survey practice.
-	Awareness of Common Law as it affects land tenure.
-	Sound knowledge of the various regulations, directions and guidelines related to cadastral surveys.  This should include the practices and procedures of the various survey registering agencies.  It is emphasised that training in the practical application of the regulations is essential.  Acts, regulations, directions, guidelines and procedures are now changing frequently, so it is necessary that library and knowledge be kept up to date.

5.14 Building Set-Out
-	Experience in building set-out or control with respect to a boundary (not necessarily multi-storey)

5.15 Total Subdivision Process
-	Experience of the total subdivision process, including local government, planning authorities, servicing authorities, engineering and finance.

5.16 Survey Office Procedures
-	Survey office procedures with an emphasis on quality assurance and the avoidance of mistakes.

5.17 Strata Titles
-	The Strata Titles Act and associated plans and surveys.

5.18	Searching of general law land and subdivision of general law land.

5.19	Adverse possession claims.

5.20	Bringing general law land under the Land Titles Act.

5.21	Definition and re-establishment of tidal and non tidal riparian boundaries, the nature of those boundaries and the rights that are conferred.

5.22	Knowledge of the nature of the different kinds of subdivision processes under the various Acts, the many opportunities they afford and the requirements of each.

5.23	Subdivision design and options and optimisation.

5.24	Understanding clients needs and guiding their instructions to give them the best results.  Informing them as to costs and time frame.  Ongoing client relations.

		If the aspirations and commitments of both parties are discussed during the shared preparation of the agreement, and if the candidate's progress is discussed frequently during the period of the agreement, a dispute is unlikely.

		If a dispute arises that cannot be readily resolved by the supervisor and candidate, the Board will willingly provide a Board member to assist with negotiations or resolution.  Such assistance will not infer blame.

14.		Termination Of Agreement



FORM 1
SURVEYORS ACT 2002
Surveyors Regulations 2003
STATEMENT OF PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT
Use this form to record and submit to the Tasmanian Land Surveyors Accreditation Board evidence of the candidate's professional experience during the period of the Professional Training Agreement.  

I, .............................................................., a surveyor registered under the Surveyors Act 2002, hereby certify that .........................................., a registered candidate - 
(1) has been professionally and continuously employed with me in the practice of land surveying from ................... to ...................., that is a period of ........................... months;
(2) has, during that period, gained the following experience -



Length of Time (in weeks) over which the candidate has obtained practical experience under a professional training agreement

Nature of Practical Experience Obtained by the Candidate
Office Experience
Field Experience as a General Assistant
Field Experience as an Instrument Operator
Field Experience as a Party Leader
Total Experience Obtained
Urban Land Boundary Surveys:





Rural Land Boundary Surveys:






Other Types of Survey

























Total Experience






Dated at ......................................................... this day ..................................... of 20.......
.............................................
Registered land surveyor

A Statement of Professional Development should normally be submitted to the Board at the completion of 3 months, 6 months, 12 months professional experience, and 6-monthly thereafter.

? 3 months	? 6 months	? 12 months	? 18 months	? 24 months	? .... months

The supervising surveyor and the candidate should bring to the Board's attention any significant departure from the agreed PTA or significant delays in the candidate's progress against the time schedule contained in the PTA.



FORM 2
SURVEYORS ACT 2002
Surveyors Regulations 2003

CERTIFICATE OF PROFESSIONAL TRAINING

Use this form to at the completion of the candidate's Professional Training to certify that the candidate has achieved the level of competency required by the Professional Training Agreement. 




I, .............................................................., a land surveyor registered under the Surveyors Act 2002, hereby certify that in my opinion  .........................................., a registered candidate under my supervsion, has the competencies required by the Tasmanian Land Surveyors Accreditation Board and detailed in the candidate's Professional Training Agreement.



Dated at ......................................................... this day ..................................... of 20......
	
			..............................................Registered Land Surveyor


1 This current version of the Professional Training Agreement will be reviewed by the Tasmanian Land Surveyors Accreditation Board following 12 months of operation.  Please forward any recommendations that will assist the Board to improve the agreement or its operation, to the Secretary, Tasmanian Land Surveyors Accreditation Board, GPO Box 1194, Hobat 7001. 
??

??

??

??

1


1








Tasmanian PTA version 6.doc

1
Tasmanian Land Surveyors Accreditation Board
Professional Training Agreement



August, 2007





Agreement 00000 




ii






6


Schedule 1 to Agreement 00000 

11


Agreement 00000

12


EXCULSIVE SELLING AGREMENT


BETWEEN Selling Party(s) ______________________________________________  A.B.N. ___________________

Address _________________________________________________________________________________________

Phone No: __________________________________			                 GST Registered       Yes/No


AND Bloodstock Agent:	Neil Brockington

ABN Number:			91160585941						GST Registered -No

Trading As:			A Trojan Bloodstock

Address:			8 Bou Court
				Edens Landing Q 4207
				E-mail: neil@atrojanbloodstock.com.au
				Fax: (07) 3382 6334    Mobile: 0411 093 269

For the Sale of ____________________________________________________________________________________

1. Sale Agreement for the above named horse is allocated to A Trojan Bloodstock by the seller, knowing full well that Neil Brockington (Bloodstock Agent) will do everything within his power to sell the horse.
2.  Knowing A Trojan Bloodstock will do everything possible to sell the horse, the selling party gives Neil Brockington (Bloodstock Agent) exclusive selling rights of the above named horse for a minimum time frame of three weeks as stated below.

Exclusive Time Frame Period:	From __________________________                To __________________________






	________________________________________  	     _________________________________________
	    Signature of Selling Party(s)			       Signature of Neil Brockington
							       Bloodstock Agent
							       A Trojan Bloodstock


Please fill out the above and sign then either post of fax to A Trojan Bloodstock and a signed copy will be returned to you as soon as possible.






















	MAGNet DATABASE AGREEMENT


















			VARRO CLARKE & CO
			Solicitors
			Eighth Level
			379 Queen Street
			BRISBANE              4000
	
			Telephone	:	(07) 3229 3877
			Facsimile	:	(07) 3229 5264

GEO-MAG.Net\PRINCIPL.AGR









THIS AGREEMENT is made the                   day of                        , 2001.



BETWEEN	The Party more particularly described in Attachment 5 as the Contributor hereinafter called the "Contributor"

AND		The Party more particularly described in Attachment 5 as the Manager hereinafter called the "Manager"

AND		The Party more particularly described in Attachment 5 as the Custodian hereinafter called the "Custodian"



WHEREAS


IT IS AGREED as follows:-
THE CONTRIBUTOR'S DATA AND LICENCE
1.3	No Dealings by Contributor
1.4	Contributor's Indemnity
1.5 No Representations or warranty

1.6 No Liability

3.	THE MANAGER'S DUTIES

3.1	
10. RELATIONSHIP OF PARTIES

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement:


Signed for and on behalf of		
	ACN		
	By		
Who warrants that he/she is authorised to sign this agreement:
	on behalf of		

The Common Seal of MAGNet		)
DATABASE SERVICES PTY LTD 	)
ACN 085 510 783 is affixed in 		)
accordance with its articles of 		)
association in the presence of:		)


.......................				........................
Director					Director/Secretary


The Common Seal of MAGNet		)
DATABASE NOMINEES PTY LTD 	)
ACN 085 510 827 is affixed in 		)
accordance with its articles of 		)
association in the presence of:		)


.......................				........................
Director					Director/Secretary



	ATTACHMENT 1

DATA PROCESSING, PRESENTATION AND MANAGEMENT

(a)	Data collection
	Receive data, catalogue and send acknowledgment of receipt of the survey data to the contributor company

(b)	Data validation
	Review survey quality and document work programme

(c)	Data re-processing
	Review data correction and levelling for aeromagnetic surveys and re-process aeromagnetic data where beneficial.

(d)	Data organisation
	Generate a graphical index to all survey contributed by Contributors and incorporated into the MAGNet Database.

(e)	Data presentation
	Generate a series of standard grid products and a flight-line diagram for each incorporated survey at a nominated resolution.  These standard products shall be included in the purchase price of the data.
	GRIDDED DATA
	for aeromagnetic data,



.	TMI grid and for radiometric data (where supplied),
.	Total Count grid, K grid, U grid, and Th grid

	The default grid format is to be BIL (Band Interleaved by Line), with a header for ER-Mapper.

	Any further products required from the data, including digital grids, images and maps, will be charged at normal commercial rates for these products.

(f)	Data archive



	ATTACHMENT 2

DATA SALES AND ROYALTIES

1.	

_____________________________________________________________________

DATA TYPE		Propr. Multi-client	Open-File
			Sell rate - Royalty	Sell rate - Royalty
_____________________________________________________________________

Airborne mag/4ch, 256-ch 
rad - as is*		$1.75/km	$1.30/km	$250.00	$0
_____________________________________________________________________

Airborne mag/4ch rad - 
as is			$1.45/km	$1.00/km	$150.00	$0
_____________________________________________________________________

Airborne mag only - as is	$1.35/km	$1.00/km	$150.00	$0
_____________________________________________________________________

Airborne mag/4ch rad - 
reprocessed		$1.65/km	$1.00/km	$0.20/km	$0
_____________________________________________________________________

Airborne mag only - 
reprocessed		$1.45/km	$1.00/km	$0.10/km	$0
_____________________________________________________________________

Airborne EM		P.O.A.	P.O.A.	P.O.A.	$0
_____________________________________________________________________


The above price structure is indicative only. It includes provision of located and gridded data, but does not include any provision of value-added map products, etc.  These may be ordered at normal commercial rates.
Where it can be demonstrated that the above prices are inappropriate (for example because of poor recovery techniques) the sale price may be varied, but only with the approval of the contributor.

Rates for supply of EM data will depend on a range of factors including ownership, data volumes and type of survey.  It is noted that current prices for new EM surveys range from $55/km to $70/km.

*	These rates assume re-processing work to be funded by the manager
*	Statistical Noise Reduction for 256-channel radiometrics negotiated on request


The Manager will engage the services of:-

	(a)	Pitt Research Pty Ltd ACN 070 275 179
		3/39 Holland St,
		Thebarton  SA

		and

	(b)	Geoimage Pty Ltd ACN 010 840 294
		13/180 Moggill Road
		Taringa  QLD

	to jointly but independently market data (including products derived) from the MAGNet Database.  For this purpose a joint index and Internet website will be established for the airborne geophysical surveys meta data.  This index will be developed from Pitt Research's current index available on the Internet for its public data holdings.



	ATTACHMENT 3

DATA FROM MEMBERS

AEROMAGNETIC DATA
The aeromagnetic data supplied by Members should ideally be in located profile forms as described below and should contain the following information.

1.	Line number
2.	Date
3.	Fiducial number
4.	Time (local samn)
5.	Total field reading location, latitude and longitude (units).  If AMG or other UTM-based co-ordinate system is used, please state zone.
6.	Total magnetic field as recorded during survey.
7.	Aircraft-compensated total magnetic field
8.	Diurnal magnetic data.
9.	Corrected total magnetic field (diurnal & IGRF removed)
10.	Height at each point (radar and barometric/GPS height)

Any multipliers/base-levels used in calculation of corrected total field magnetics.


RADIOMETRIC DATA

Radiometric data supplied by Members should also be in located profile form as described below and should contain the following information:

1.	Line number
2.	Date
3.	Fiducial number
4.	Time (local samn)
5.	Observation reading location, latitude and longitude (units).  If AMG or other UTM-based co-ordinate system is used, please state zone.
6.	Raw Total count as recorded during survey.
7.	Raw Potassium Count as recorded during survey
8.	Raw Uranium Count as recorded during survey
9.	Raw Thorium Count as recorded during survey
10.	Corrected Total Count
11.	Corrected Potassium Count
12.	Corrected Uranium Count
13.	Corrected Thorium Count
14.	Height at each point (radar and barometric/GPS height)
15.	Atmospheric data (temperature, air pressure, humidity).




COMPUTER FORMAT AND MEDIA

Data should be sent in ASCII format on any of the following computer media.

1.	Exabyte 8mm tape (2.3gig or 5.0gig density)
2.	9-track tape (800/1600/6250bpi) please state record and block length.
3.	Colorado Trakker QIC-80 tape
4.	QIC-120 1/4 inch tape
5.	CD-ROM ISO 9660 format
6.	DAT 4mm DDS format tape


ADDRESSES FOR DATA

Mr Mark Deuter				Mr Max Bye
Pitt Research Pty Ltd			Geoimage Pty Ltd
3/39 Holland St				65 Brockway Rd
THEBARTON  SA      5031			FLOREAT WA 6014


CONTACT DETAILS

Ph:	(08) 8152 0422			Ph:	(08)  9383 9555
Fax:	(08) 8152 0433			Fax:	(08)  9383 9666

e-mail:mjd@pitt.com.au			e-mail:perth@geoimage.com.au




	ATTACHMENT 4

STATEMENT OF OWNERSHIP



I, the duly authorised representatives of the Contributor, declare that to the best of the Contributor's knowledge the ownership rights for the survey data identified below reside with the Contributor, and that contribution of the survey data to the Project for public release shall not contravene the rights or interests of any other company or individual.

				__________________________________________

By:

Designation:
	in the presence of:
Date:

SURVEY DETAILS

Where possible please provide the following survey details:
1.	Survey Name
2.	Survey identifier/number
3.	Survey Date
4.	Flight line spacing (traverses)
5.	Flight line direction
6.	Nominal terrain clearance
7.	Aeromagnetic only/radiometric only/Aeromagnetic and 
	Radiometric
8.	Spheroid used
9.	AMG Zone
10.	Tape identifier/number 


	ATTACHMENT 5



"Contributor"	:







"Manager"	:	MAGNet DATABASE SERVICES PTY LTD 
			ACN 085 510 783







"Custodian"	:	MAGNet DATABASE NOMINEES PTY LTD
			ACN 085 510 827

	16.





AGREEMENT

 BETWEEN

THE HEALTH AUTHORITIES OF 

THE STATES AND TERRITORIES OF AUSTRALIA

AND 

THE HEALTH INSURANCE COMMISSION

AND

THE AUSTRALIAN INSTITUTE OF HEALTH AND WELFARE

AND

THE COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA 
for the purposes of this Agreement represented by the

AUSTRALIAN BUREAU OF STATISTICS

AND

DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND AGEING

AND

DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS' AFFAIRS


 (2004 to 2009)

Concerning the establishment of structures and processes through which the Commonwealth, State and Territory health and statistical authorities will develop agreed programs to improve, maintain and share national health information.



1.	PREAMBLE

The planning and provision of health services and health programs are important and complex undertakings in which governments, government instrumentalities, private organisations, health professionals, academics, community groups and individuals have shared responsibilities.

The national health system operates within finite resources that cannot be expected to increase significantly in real terms.  The system is required to meet increasing demands and changing needs and is experiencing major technological advances.  Health and statistical authorities are committed to micro economic and structural reform and to being responsible and accountable for their expenditure and impact.

Information is required about health services and health service consumers; and about environmental and human factors that may affect health.  To ensure that essential, accurate, reliable and timely information is available nationwide for and about the health system a coordinated approach and agreed rules are needed to facilitate jurisdictional cooperation, efficient and effective utilisation of financial and intellectual resources.

Health service information is generated by health professionals, health administrators and government agencies in the conduct of their normal activities.  Consistent with sound management and commercial practice and protection of individual privacy, the use of this information should be optimised.  Collections should be rationalised to eliminate duplication and minimise the need for special collections.
 
The framework provided by this Agreement should also assist, where appropriate, consistency between health, community services and housing assistance information.

As governments provide or finance almost 70% of all health services, and largely fund the training of health professionals, they are major producers and users of health information.  Therefore, the Agreement will cover government authorities initially but efforts will be made to involve other sectors in the processes and possibly in the Agreement itself.

This Agreement is to ensure that the collection, compilation and interpretation of national information are appropriate and are carried out efficiently.  This will require agreement on definitions, standards and rules of collection of information and on guidelines for the co-ordination of access, interpretation and publication of national health information.

This Agreement retains the main features and scope of the Agreement developed in 1993 and incorporates amendments to reflect the significant changes to health information governance introduced in 2003 and the increased emphasis on consistency in data standards between health, community services and housing assistance. It also includes the Commonwealth Department of Veterans' Affairs as a signatory.  

The Agreement provides for the addition of schedules to the Agreement to cater for specific requirements, where agreed by relevant parties or to provide more detail on specific matters.

The Australian community will be the beneficiaries of this Agreement as the result of better and more timely information, more appropriate provision of services, improved health outcomes and improved efficiency. 

For the purposes of this Agreement, 'health information' is data or derived information, or indices, recorded or published in any medium, including data concerned with:

	the health status and risks of individuals and populations; and

	the provision of health and illness care services, health promotion and disease prevention programs including  information on the uses, costs and outcomes of services and programs, and the resources required to provide the services and programs.

Health information has multiple purposes, including clinical purposes, administrative purposes and statistical purposes.  However, the main focus of this Agreement covers health information used for analytical, statistical and research purposes. 

2.	AIM AND OBJECTIVES

The purpose of this Agreement is to ensure the availability of nationally consistent quality health and health services data to support important policy and program development, and improvements in the quality, efficiency, effectiveness and accountability of health services provided to individuals or populations. 

Nationally consistent health information also supports public discussion of health matters and research by health researchers and health professionals. The overarching aim is to improve the health of all Australians by contributing to better planning and practice in health promotion and prevention and the prevention, detection and treatment of diseases and injury.

The aim of this Agreement is to improve access by governments, health professionals, non-government organisations and community groups to uniform health information.

  Specifically, the objectives are to:

	promote the collection, compilation, analysis and dissemination of relevant, timely, accurate and reliable health information concerned with the full range of health services and of a range of population parameters (including health status and risks), in accordance with nationally agreed protocols and standards;

	develop and agree on projects to improve, maintain and share national health information;

	cooperate in the provision of resources necessary to address national health information development priorities efficiently and effectively;

	provide the information required to research, monitor and improve health and the delivery of health services;

	provide the information required to facilitate nationally agreed projects which promote the development and reform of the health care system in accordance with the priorities of the Australian Health Ministers' Advisory Council; 

	promote the extension of the range of national health information and encourage other groups and individuals in government and non-government sectors to participate by making available information that they hold; and 

	work towards improving consistency in data definitions, classifications and collections between health, community services and housing assistance. 

3.	CONTEXT 


This section describes the context and underlying principles within which the Agreement will operate.

3.1	Collection of National Health Information:

4.	OPERATION OF THE AGREEMENT

7	SCHEDULES TO THE AGREEMENT

This Agreement provides for the addition of Schedules which are consistent with the scope and purpose of the Agreement.  Schedules will deal with more specific matters, such as the details of the committees responsible for specific aspects of management and operation of the Agreement or program based or specific purpose information structures agreed by parties during the life of the Agreement. Any schedules to the Agreement will specify the relationship between the matters in the schedule and the relevant sections of the Agreement.



8	DATE OF COMMENCEMENT OF THE AGREEMENT.

A series of national committees has been established to manage this Agreement and undertake specific tasks associated with the development and maintenance of national health information.  The key responsibilities of these committees in relation to this Agreement and related matters are set out in this Schedule. Some responsibilities which do not relate closely to this Agreement may not be listed. 


The NHIG has responsibility for providing AHMAC with strategic advice on national health information and for advising AHMAC on:
 national priorities for health information; and
* planning and management requirements for national health information, including funding requirements.

NAGATSIHID membership comprises representatives of the ABS, the AIHW, the Commonwealth Department of Health and Ageing; a National Aboriginal Community Controlled Health Organisation; the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Service; Australian Institute of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Studies, the SCATSIH and the SIMC as well as Indigenous experts on Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander health and welfare and an epidemiologist with expertise in Indigenous health issues.

The National Public Health Information Working Group (NPHIWG)

The National Public Health Information Working Group (NPHIWG) is a sub-committee of the National Public Health Partnership (NPHP) and the National Health Information Group (NHIG). It advises and reports to the NPHP and the NHIG on:
* national public health information issues, including the development and implementation of the National Public Health Information Plan;
* collection, dissemination and analysis of national public health information; and 
* harmonisation and collaboration between jurisdictions in relation to public health information.

Membership includes representatives of the Australian Government (including the Australian Bureau of Statistics) and State and Territory government health departments, and the Australian Institute of Health and Welfare.

Secretariat

The Australian Institute of Health and Welfare (AIHW) provides secretariat assistance to the SIMC, the HDSC, the NAGATSIHID and the NPHIWG and support to the chairs of those Committees.




2




PRE EMPTIVE AGREEMENT

U.H.G-PE (PRE-EMPTIVE) HABER

THIS AGREEMENT dated as of and effective on the     day of         , 2007;
BETWEEN: (Name) _________________,and__________________,and_____________________
And________________________,(company)_______________________________________, a 
Corporation or individual trading continued under the laws of; 
(Country)     _______         (Type of Business) _______________________________
  (the "Corporation or Identity")
Notice of Address: 
1. ___________________________________________________________
2. ___________________________________________________________
3. ___________________________________________________________


AND: United Mining Australia Company (Gold)Pty Ltd (UMACO) (An Exclusive Australian(Australasian)Rights and Representative Process Holding Co of Haber Inc of Medford Ma USA and active Registered "Australian" mining and Process development corporation )
 UMACO Pty Ltd of the City Sydney and Herberton in the State of New South Wales and Queensland, Australia; and who's Business is registered with the Australian Securities Commission date 20 June 2003 under ABN 86 105 199 317 (Code 14204) and ACN 105 199 317 and business office is located at Australian Chartered Accountants "Duesburies Accountants and Associates" PO Box 1118 Mareeba Queensland 4880 Phone +61740921677 
(the "Trade Consultant" notably hereby appointed, as Haber Inc USA authorised international Australian (Australasian)distributors and consultants, agents and representative for and on behalf of the authorization supplier "Haber Inc")acting for and on behalf of the corporation)
WITNESSES THAT WHEREAS:
A. The Corporation or Identity is a Local or Foreign Trading operation holding certain participation rights with respect to the trading or mining of ore, concentrates raw materials precious metals (gold other), base metals and or other minerals located in the country of extraction, Australia and more particularly is your principal place of business located at the geographic description of ________________________________________at lot No,___  or Street No  _on Plan (Map)___________ situated in the town suburb or some kilometers of (nearest Town)   _______________in the country/state of _______________________
B. The Consultant, who's business extensions are independently incorporating in a mineral processing and mining metals business activity in Australia (Australasia)is willing and capable of providing on a "best efforts" basis various joint negotiation supply and consulting for the HGP processing and extraction of precious metals and minerals from, bulk materials, concentrates ,  with respect to Haber Inc proprietary Gold Process and Corporation's or Identity and International Trading interests;
Now; it is witnessed herewith that the consultant is acting on behalf of all trading entities witnessed by the exclusive distributorship rights agreement (supplier to representative) and (supplier to buyer)herewith irrespective if the supplier is a joint consultant or an alternative independent miner or manufacturer and the buyer is a miner or trader independent of all parties 'matuitus matandus".
C. That the consultant is a Joint Participant with Haber Inc USA and that the consultant irrevocably asserts with best efforts obligations under International Exclusive Rights with respect to the supplier (all rights are reserved)and that it is not the duty of the consultant to divulge or expose in any manner or form such obligations as maintained with the supplier, instruments of technical knowledge. The corporation/identity and supplier acknowledges the consultant rights in any such exchange with reference, or substantive rights and obligations; and with respect of any precepts transpired between party party shall, with impunity remain in this agreement
The Corporation or Identity desires to engage the trading Consultant or authorised representative of Haber Inc as an independent consultant and the Consultant or authorised representative of Haber Inc desires to be retained in that capacity upon the terms and conditions along with Schedule "A" The pending HGP License Agreement (if, and when applicable);
                 D. The Intent of this agreement is to converge and merge HGP Licensing Agreement, not withstanding all that pertains herein 

Any notice, waiver, direction or other instrument or communication required or permitted to be given to any of the parties hereunder shall be in writing and may be given by facsimile transmission or by delivering the same:
In the case of the Corporation or Identity, to:

______________Street
_____________, 
____________
____________

Fax: ( ) ______________
Attention: 
(b) In the case of the Consultant, to:

9 Mowbray Road
Herberton 
Qld 4887
Fax: (+61 7) 40963228
Attention: Mr. Warren Geary 

By:
 
----------------------------------- Witnessed for __________________________By:
(Authorized Signatory)
 JUSTICE OF THE PEACE
----------------------------------------
(Signature)
----------------------------------------
(Print Name & Address) ---------------------------------(
Authorized Signatory)
(Authorised Signatory)

Warren Keith Geary 
Witnessed for UMACO Pty Ltd By:
-----------------------------------
WARREN KEITH GEARY
On behalf UMACO PTY LTD /s/ JUSTICE OF THE PEACE
----------------------------------------
(Signature)

----------------------------------------
(Print Name & Address)

-----------------------------------





INDIGENOUS ARTIST AND ART CENTRE AGREEMENT

THIS AGREEMENT IS MADE BETWEEN:
The art centre identified in Schedule 1 (Art Centre)
AND
The artist identified in Schedule 1 (Artist)

RECITALS
The Artist wishes to collaborate with the Art Centre on the terms of this agreement.

THE PARTIES AGREE AS FOLLOWS:
1. Definitions
1.1. In this agreement, unless the context requires otherwise:
Art Dealings means any Sale and any administrative matter, business, or agreement that relates to Artworks.
Artwork means the works described in Schedule 1. 
Intellectual Property means any copyright, trademark, moral rights, or other rights existing in the Artworks, including any applicable statutory resale royalty right, but does not include rights in the physical property of the Artwork.
Art Centre's Commission means the commission stated in Schedule 1.
Artist's Payment means the payment stated in Schedule 1;
Retail Value means the GST exclusive price at which each Artwork is first listed for sale. 
Sale means the transfer of ownership of an Artwork from the Artist to a purchaser in return for the payment of an agreed amount.
2. Term

3.1. During the Term, the Art Centre must provide and meet the costs of the following services:
a promote the Artist and the Artwork and represent the Artist in all Art Dealings on the basis specified in Schedule 1;
b provide the Artist with reasonable access to a secure environment in which the Artist can create Artwork, and where the Artist can store that Artwork and the materials being used to create that Artwork whilst Artwork is being created;
c make available to the Artist canvases, paint and other materials for the purpose of creating Artwork at no cost to the Artist;
d provide relevant direction and advice by a person with appropriate experience including in relation to techniques for creating Artwork and the materials used in creating the Artwork, the market for the Artwork, and estimates of the market price for the Artwork;
e catalogue and record each Artwork and provide a written form of authentication to accompany each Artwork;
f properly recognise and acknowledge the Artist in all promotional events and promotional materials that relate to Artwork, and provide the Artist with a copy of any promotional materials produced;
g establish the appropriate Retail Value for each Artwork in consultation with the Artist;
h keep the Artwork available for sale at the Retail Value and not discount the Retail Value of any Artwork without the Artist's prior written consent;
i display the Artwork in the manner determined in consultation with the Artist or take reasonable steps to store it in a secure environment;
j restrict access to and sale of Artworks that the Artist says are of particular cultural significance as directed by the Artist;
k take out and maintain adequate insurance against loss, damage, theft and destruction of the Artworks provided to the Art Centre under this agreement; and
l at all times act in the best interests of the Artist, and exercise all care, attention and skill in respect of all Art Dealings.
b arrange for the Artwork to be included in exhibitions hosted by third parties;
c arrange travel, accommodation and meals as appropriate for the Artist to attend exhibitions hosted by third parties at which the Artwork is featured or displayed;
d identify, advise and assist the Artist in relation to, relevant public or private commissions, and collaborative or community art projects.
4. Consignment to other art centres or galleries



SCHEDULE 1
Principal Terms


ART CENTRE
([NAME, ABN]( of ([ADDRESS, TELEPHONE, FAX](


ARTIST
([NAME, ABN]( of ([ADDRESS, TELEPHONE, FAX](






ARTWORK
If the relationship is exclusive Artwork means any artistic works including works of artistic craftsmanship created by the Artist during the term of this agreement.
If the relationship is non-exclusive Artwork means any artistic works including works of artistic craftsmanship created by the Artist during the term of this
and provided to the Art Centre.
( [DELETE THE FOLLOWING TEXT IF THERE ARE NO EXISTING WORKS] For both exclusive and non-exclusive relationships Artwork includes the artistic works of the Artist listed in Schedule 2.(



ART CENTRE COMMISSION
([NUMBER]( % of the payment received by the Art Centre from the purchaser in a Sale of an Artwork exclusive of any GST
([OPTIONAL: DELETE IF YOU DO NOT USE]( Where Artworks are sold by any Other Gallery on a consignment basis, the Art Centre's Commission is reduced to ([NUMBER](%

ARTIST'S PAYMENT
The payment received by the Art Centre from a Sale of Artwork exclusive of any GST less the Art Centre's Commission and any other gallery's commission

TERM
This agreement commences on the date on which the last party signs the agreement and continues until terminated in accordance with clause 13.

RELATIONSHIP
([exclusive/non-exclusive](

OTHER GALLERY COMMISSION
([NUMBER]( % Or such other amount as is agreed by the artist in writing



TIME FOR ARTIST'S PAYMENT
No later than ([NUMBER]( calendar days after the Sale by the Art Centre or the receipt of payment by the Art Centre from any Other Gallery or as otherwise agreed with the Artist

INTEREST ON LATE PAYMENTS
([NUMBER](% p.a. payable on demand and accruing daily from (and including) the date any unpaid amount is due until the amount is paid in full

INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY





ICIP NOTICE
This artwork embodies traditional ritual knowledge of the ([NAME]( Community. It was created with the consent of the custodians of the Community. Dealing with any part of this artwork for any purpose that has not been authorised by the custodians is a serious breach of the customary laws of the ([NAME]( Community. For enquiries regarding permitted use of this artwork, contact ([NAME](.

GOVERNING LAW
([STATE OR TERRITORY OF RESIDENCE OF THE ARTIST](.

SCHEDULE 2
Artist's Artworks

Title
Medium
Size
Retail value
Catalogue No






































EXECUTED AS AN AGREEMENT:

Signed by the Artist:
Signature:
Name (PRINT):
Date:

Signed by an authorised Art Centre representative:
Signature:
Name (PRINT):
Date:

1
Artist and Art Centre Agreement		  (c) Arts Law Centre of Australia 2008


This Agreement commences on the Date of this Agreement and, unless terminated earlier, expires on the Completion Date.
3. Planning, design and Approvals
3.1 3.1	Project Budget and Project Plan

its authorised representative; and
(ii) a suitably qualified and independent person engaged for the purposes of inspecting the Works on their completion and determining whether, in the professional opinion of that person, the Works meet the requirements set out in clauses 4.9(a)(i) and 4.9(a)(ii),
written certification that the Works meet the requirements set out in clauses 4.9(a)(i) and 4.9(a)(ii), and provide each such written certification to the Commonwealth.
4.10 Date for Practical Completion
11.9 Participation in evaluations and analysis of the Project
23.1 23.1	When does this clause apply?
This clause 23 applies only if the Organisation deals with Personal Information when it conducts the Project.
23.2 23.2	Other definitions relating to Personal Information
In this clause 23, the terms agency and Information Privacy Principles (or IPPs) have the same meaning as they have in section 6 of the Privacy Act, and subcontract  has the same meaning it has in section 95B(4) of the Privacy Act.
23.3 23.3	Organisation's obligations about Personal Information

Schedule 1  Particulars
1. Project
1.1	The Project
The Project consists of:
(a) [Option A] the purchase of the Property by the Organisation;
(b) [Option B] the construction on the Property of a insert details which will operate so as to achieve the Program Objectives;
(c) [Option C] the *extension / "refurbishment / *renovation of an existing building on the Property in order to establish insert details which will operate so as to to achieve the Program Objectives.
* = Select Option A if purchasing Property only. Select Option B if constructing a new structure or building. Select Option C if refurbishing an existing structure or building.  Please make sure Recital D and Schedule Item 1.2(a) and (b) below correspond correctly with the option(s) chosen.

2. The Property
[Option A]The Property is a parcel of land commonly known as insert street address, suburb and state/territory if new construction or a purchase
[Option B] The Property is the area comprising insert number square metres in the building currently known as insert name of existing building commonly known as insert street address if a refurbishment of part of a building 
* = Select Option B if part of a building is being refurbished; otherwise select Option A 

3. Time frames
3.1	Commencement of the Works

The Designated Use Period is the period commencing on the date that the Organisation achieves Practical Completion of the Works and expiring insert number years after that date.
4.2	Designated Use
The Designated Use is the provision of insert details of designated use that operates in a way that best achieves the Project Aim and Program Objectives.

5. Reports
5.1	Reports during the construction phase:
[Option A] The proportion of the Funds specified in respect of each Milestone in the table below will be paid to the Organisation in accordance with the table below within 25 Business Days of the Organisation achieving the Milestone to the satisfaction of the Commonwealth and after receipt by the Department of a correctly rendered invoice.  
[Option B] The maximum amount of the Funds of $insert amount (inclusive of GST) will be paid to the Organisation within 25 Business Days after the Date of this Agreement and after receipt by the Department of a correctly rendered invoice, but the Organisation must only expend Funds when it achieves a Milestone in accordance with the table below. The amount of Funds that the Organisation is entitled to spend on achieving each Milestone is set out in respect to each Milestone in the last column of the Milestone Schedule. For each Milestone, the Organisation must not spend an amount of Funds greater than the amount specified in the last column of the Milestone Schedule in respect of achieving that Milestone.
* = Select Option A if payment is made in instalments. Select Option B if payment is made up front  
A correctly rendered invoice is one that:
(a)	identifies the name of the Project;
(b)	sets out the name of the Commonwealth Project Contact;
(c)	contains a claim for the amount of the Funds properly required; and
(d)	is a Tax Invoice.


Milestone
Milestone description and requirements for achievements of Milestone
Date for completion of Milestone
[Option A] Amount of Funds payable on achievement of Milestone
[Option B] Amount of Funds the Organisation may expend on achieving the Milestone
1.
Signing of the Agreement by the Organisation and the Commonwealth and (if required by Item 14 of Schedule 1) provision of financial security in accordance with clause 6.5 and other securities in accordance with clause 6.6
Within insert number Business Days of the Date of this Agreement.
$insert amount (inclusive of GST)
2.
Submission of a Project Plan and Project Budget in accordance with clauses 3.1(a) and (b) 
Within insert number Business Days of the Date of this Agreement.
$insert amount (inclusive of GST)
3.


7. Project Contact and address 
Commonwealth Project Contact

The Commonwealth Project Contact is the person occupying the positions of insert title of position, insert Section. This position is currently occupied by insert name of person, available at the following address:

insert name of Division
Department of Health and Ageing
MDP insert number, 
GPO Box 9848
Canberra ACT 2601
Fax:	insert fax number

    and available on the following telephone number and email address:

Email: 	insert email address  
Phone: 	insert number


Organisation Project Contact

The Organisation Project Contact is the person occupying the position of insert title of position. This position is currently occupied by insert name of person available at the following address:

insert postal and street address
Fax:	insert fax number

    and available on the following telephone numbers and email address:

Email:	insert email address
Phone:	insert number

8. Specified Personnel Positions
The Specified Personnel Positions are:
(a) Project Manager
If no position is to be stated, please delete "(a) Project Manager" and insert "None required". If a Project Manager is required, please have "(a) Project Manager" remain.  Add other positions if required.  
9. Insurance
9.1	On execution of this Agreement:
(a) to the extent required by Law, workers compensation insurance in respect of the Organisation's liability for any loss or claim by a person employed or otherwise engaged, or deemed to be employed or otherwise engaged, by the Organisation in connection with the Project; and
(b) public liability policy covering legal liability (including liability assumed under contract) for loss or damage to property or injury or death to persons arising out of or in connection with carrying out the Works, for the sum of twenty million dollars ($20,000,000) per claim, or per occurrence giving rise to a claim.
9.2 On commencement of the Works:
(a) contract works policy covering loss or damage to the Works and any temporary work including materials stored off-site or in transit, for the full reinstatement and replacement cost of the Works including:
(i)	the full amount of the cost to the Organisation to construct the Works (Works Cost);
(ii)	an amount reasonably providing for additional costs of demolition and of removal of debris (to be not less than 10% of the Works Cost);
(iii)	a further amount reasonably sufficient for consultants' fees (to be not less than 5% of the Works Cost); and
(iv)	an amount providing for escalation costs incurred including those costs as may be incurred (during any period of reinstatement or replacement) during the period up to Practical Completion,

Professional Service Provider
Professional indemnity coverage
Architect
$10 million
Builder
$20 million
Fire Services
$2 million
Electrical 
$10 million
Hydraulic
$5 million
Civil
$10 million
Mechanical
$10 million
Building Code of Australia
$5 million








Executed as an agreement.

Signed for and on behalf of the  Commonwealth of Australia as represented by the Department of Health and Ageing ABN 83 605 426 759 on:


Date












Signature of Witness





Signature of Authorised Person
Name of Witness in full


Name of Authorised Person in full



Signed for and on behalf of 
insert Name of Organisation 
ABN insert number on:


Date












Signature of Witness





Signature of Authorised Person
Name of Witness in full


Name of Authorised Person in full
 
Legal\106279620.4

		

Legal\106279620.4

	
		iv

		46





		56





OATSIH Capital Works Funding Agreement Nov 07 V9
Legal\106225730.5106279620.4






[INSERT COMPANY NAME]
Of











___________________________________________________________________ 
AGREEMENT FOR THE PROVISION OF PROFESSIONAL SERVICES 
___________________________________________________________________

























THIS AGREEMENT is made 
BETWEEN MURDOCH WEBSTER TECHNOLOGY GROUP PTY LTD ABN 72 941 863 780 of Level 1a, 18-24 Ricketts Road. Mount Waverley Vic 3149 ("MWTG")

AND 

[INSERT COMPANY DETAILS] ACN [INSERT ACN] of [INSERT COMPANY ADDRESS} ("Client"). 

RECITALS
A MWTG is a consulting company that supplies professional services to clients.
B MWTG has been requested by the Client to provide professional services.
C MWTG has agreed to provide professional services to the Client on the terms and conditions set out in this document.
IT IS AGREED
1 INTERPRETATION
1.1 Definitions 
In this document, defined terms have the meaning given to them in Schedule 2 of this Agreement.

1.2 MWTG to Provide Professional Service
MWTG agrees to provide the Professional Service to the Client during the Service Period at the Location in accordance with the terms of this document.

2 OBLIGATIONS OF MWTG


EXECUTED as an agreement.

This agreement is governed by the laws of [INSERT RELEVANT JURISDICTION].  The parties each submit to the exclusive jurisdiction of the courts of that state and the courts of appeal from them.


THE COMMON SEAL of MWTG PTY LTD, ABN 72 941 863 780  is affixed in accordance with its articles of association in the presence of:
)
)
)
)




................................................................
Secretary/Director

................................................................
Name of Secretary/Director (print)




................................................................
Director

................................................................
Name of Director (print)




EXECUTED BY THE CLIENT

THE COMMON SEAL of CLIENT


 is affixed in accordance with its articles of association in the presence of:
)
)
)
)




................................................................
Secretary/Director

................................................................
Name of Secretary/Director (print)




................................................................
Director

................................................................
Name of Director (print)



SCHEDULE ONE


Item 1 - Client


Item 2 - Commencement Date


Item 3 - Termination Date



Item 4 - Service 



Item 5 - Consultants





Item 6   Consulting Manager


Item 7 - Location


Item 8a - Fee - Per Diem



Item 8b - Fixed Price Arrangement Fee





Schedule 2

11.8 Definitions 
In this document:

"Agreement" means this agreement;

"Approved Expenses" means any and all expenses and costs associated with the provision of the Service, including, but not limited to costs associated with the termination of Consultants upon the Client's requests;

"Client" means The party to whom the Service identified in this Agreement is to be provided;

"Commencement Date" means the date in item 2 of the Schedule;

"Consultant(s)" means the individual or individuals whose names appear in item 5 of the Schedule as consultant(s) provided by MWTG to the Client;

"Fee" means the amount to be paid to MWTG by the Client for the provision of the Service;

"Location" means the place where the Consultant is required to perform the Service required by the Client as prescribed in item 7 of the Schedule;

"Public Holiday" means each day declared to be a public holiday as gazetted in the relevant jurisdiction prescribed in item 9 of the Schedule;

"Related Body Corporate" has the same meaning as under the Corporations Law;

"Schedule One" means a schedule (as attached: headed "Schedule One") that is to be read in conjunction with this Agreement. It is MWTG and the Client's intention for numerous services (as agreed) to be covered by the terms and conditions of this Agreement (and its associated Schedules).  To prevent duplication of the underpinning Agreement, the parties agree that a number of "Schedules One" can be incorporated into the commercial arrangement in accordance with the terms and conditions contained in the Agreement. Each Schedule One is to be read in conjunction with (and underpinned by) the Agreement;

"Service" means the service in item 4 of the Schedule;

"Service Period" means the period between and inclusive of the Commencement Date and the Termination Date;

"Termination Date" means the date in item 3 of the Schedule.

9

THIS AGREEMENT IS MADE ON THE DATE SET OUT IN THE SCHEDULE TO THIS AGREEMENT

BETWEEN:

COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA ('the Commonwealth'), acting through and represented by the Department of Education, Employment and Workplace Relations ('DEEWR') ABN 63 578 775 294

AND

THE PARTICIPANT, whose name is set out in the Schedule to this Agreement (referred to in this Agreement as 'you')

THE PARTIES AGREE AS FOLLOWS:
Definitions
1.	In this "Agreement", which includes the Schedule (and any attachment(s)) that is attached to the agreement, the following words have the following meanings:

(a) "Business" means your business, the details of which are set out in the Schedule to this Agreement and which is to be operated in accordance with your Business plan, which has been approved by DEEWR or, at DEEWR's discretion, your NEIS Provider.

(b) "Business Insurance" means appropriate business insurance cover as described in your Business plan that has been taken out by you for the Period of NEIS Assistance, which will be verified as current at the first, and if necessary subsequent, Mentor Support visit(s), or as required.

(c) "Commercially Viable" means the Business is likely to provide a net income at least equal to the single, 21 or over, no children rate of Newstart Allowance, or such other rate as notified by DEEWR in writing from time to time, by the end of 52 weeks from the Commencement Date for each Participant in the Business.

(d) "Commencement Date" means the date on which NEIS Assistance commences, as specified in the Schedule to this Agreement, or as otherwise approved by DEEWR in writing.

(e) "External Income" means any gross income you receive during the Period of NEIS Assistance that the Australian Taxation Office would regard as income. This includes but is not limited to interest, dividends, rent from investment property, any lump sum compensation payment or earnings from employment outside the Business. "External Income" excludes NEIS Allowance, NEIS Rental Assistance, Department of Family and Community Services (DFaCS) allowances/pensions, Centrelink allowances/pensions, Department of Veterans' Affairs (DVA) allowances/pensions, your spouse's income, and NEIS business income.

(f) "External Income Test" means a test based upon a NEIS Income Statement to determine whether your total gross External Income during a Financial Quarter exceeds twice the rate of NEIS Allowance for the same period.

(g) "Financial Quarter" means a period from 1 July to 30 September, 1 October to 31 December, 1 January to 31 March or 1 April to 30 June.

(h) "Full Time" means minimum of 35 hours per week, except for recipients of Centrelink Disability Support Pension (DSP) or Parenting Payment Single (PPS), for whom the minimum is 20 hours per week, or recipients of Centrelink Carer Payment, for whom the minimum is 25 hours per week.

(i) "Mentor Support" may include assistance with the development of the Business; business advice about organisational, financial and marketing issues; and referral, where necessary, to specialist business professionals for additional advice and assistance (the cost of which is met by you).

(j) 'NAMA Job Seeker' means a person who is identified on DEEWR IT Systems as a non-allowee mature age job seeker eligible for NEIS.

(k) "NEIS Allowance" means an allowance of an amount equal to the single, 21 or over, no children rate of Newstart Allowance (NSA), or such other rate as notified by DEEWR in writing, and may be varied from time to time by DEEWR to match increases or decreases to the rates of NSA.

(l) "NEIS Assistance" means the assistance received by you from DEEWR and your NEIS Provider, including, where applicable, payment of NEIS Allowance and NEIS Rental Assistance, together with business advice, Mentor Support, monthly contact, advice and counselling, for a period of 52 weeks (or as otherwise extended or reduced by DEEWR) commencing on a date approved by DEEWR, but excluding any period in which the NEIS Participant Agreement is suspended by DEEWR.

(m) "NEIS Income Statement" means a correctly completed statement of a Participant's gross External Income, and any other information specified by DEEWR, in a form approved by DEEWR.

(n) "NEIS Participant Agreement" means this agreement entered into between you and DEEWR and "Agreement" has the same meaning.

(o) "NEIS Participant" means "you", the person whose name is set out in the Schedule to this Agreement.

(p) "NEIS Provider" means the entity that is contracted by the Commonwealth under the Employment Services Contract 2006-2009 to provide your NEIS services as set out in that contract and whose details are shown in the Schedule to this Agreement.

(q) "NEIS Rental Assistance" means a fixed rate payment of an amount of Rent Assistance you are receiving from DVA or Centrelink immediately before you begin receiving NEIS Allowance, which is capped at the rate equal to that paid to single, no children rate of Rental Assistance.

(r) "Period of NEIS Assistance" means 52 weeks from the Commencement Date plus any extension granted under clause 5 or 23.

(s) "Witness" means any person over the age of 18 years who actually sees you signing this Agreement.

"Supported by the New Enterprise Incentive Scheme, an Australian Government Initiative."

SCHEDULE

1.	Commencement Date is:
[Insert commencement date]

2.	First date of payment is:
[Insert date of first payment]

3.	Your full name ('you'):
[Insert full name of the participant]

4.	Your date of birth:
[Insert participant's date of birth]

5.	Your Job Seeker ID:
[Insert participant's Job Seeker ID]

6.	Your Agreement ID:
[Insert participant's Agreement ID]

7.	Your home address:
[Insert participant's address]

8.	Your postal address for correspondence:
[Insert postal address for correspondence]



9.	Your home telephone number:
[Insert participant's telephone number]

10.	Your mobile phone number:
[Insert participant's mobile number]

11.	Name of the Business:
[Insert name of the Business]


12.	Nature of the Business:
[Briefly describe nature of the Business]



13.	Address of the Business:
[Insert the Business address]




14.	Business telephone number:
[Insert the Business telephone number]



15.	Your NEIS Provider:
[Insert name of the participant's NEIS Provider] 
16.	The rate of NEIS Allowance at the date of this Agreement is:
(a) Basic NEIS Allowance:
(a period up to 52 weeks)
$	 per fortnight
[Insert rate of allowance as at date of Agreement. If not payable insert "not applicable".]
(b) Expected end date of NEIS Allowance
[Insert expected end date of NEIS Allowance]

(c) NEIS Rental Assistance component:
(a period up to 26 weeks)
$	 per fortnight
[If not payable insert "not applicable"]

(d) Expected end date of NEIS Rental Assistance
[Insert expected end date of NEIS Rental assistance]

17. (a)	Has a Tax File Number Declaration been completed and provided to DEEWR?

(b)	Has the tax free threshold been claimed?
[Insert YES or NO in response to the question


[Insert YES or NO in response to the question
If NO to 17 (a) or (b), DEEWR will make PAYG deductions at the appropriate rate of taxation plus the Medicare Levy on each dollar of funding provided to you (see clause 27(c) of this Agreement).     
18.	Full names of other NEIS participants operating the Business with you are (use block letters): 

		

		

		

19.	Full names of other business partners (not NEIS participants) operating the Business with you are (use block letters):

		

		

		



20.	Your bank account details are (only if you will be in receipt of NEIS Allowance and/or NEIS Rental Assistance):
Account Name: 	 [Insert details]

Bank Name and Branch	 [Insert details]

BSB Number:	---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ----	[Must be a six digit number]

Account Number	---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ----	[Up to nine digits only]


21. Attach alternative mentoring plan (refer clause 2)
Attached/No alternative mentoring plan [Strike out which is not applicable]

Signatories to this Agreement

SIGNED BY YOU
SIGNED FOR AND ON BEHALF OF THE COMMONWEALTH AS REPRESENTED BY THE DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION, EMPLOYMENT AND WORKPLACE RELATIONS (ABN 63 578 775 294) BY:

Name
		

Name
		

Signature
		

Signature
		

Date
		

Date
		



WITNESSED BY
WITNESSED BY
Name
		

Name
		

Signature
		

Signature
		

Date
		

Date
		





NEIS Participant Agreement Revised 17 March 2008		1 of 14
Version 1.4	Participant Initials............................

NEIS Participant Agreement Revised 17 March 2008		12 of 14
Version 1.4	

The Equestrian Federation of Australia
STANDARDISED LEASE AGREEMENT - Adopted January 1997


Agreement made on  __________________________________

Between ________________________________________ EFA Member No ___________ 
                              (Name of Lessor, the Owner)				     (if applicable)

of  _____________________________________________________P/Code_____________

And

________________________________________________EFA member No____________
                            (Name of Lessee)

of  _____________________________________________________P/Code_____________


Whereby it is agreed as follows -

1. 	The Lessor agrees to Lease the horse -

	Name: ________________________ Sex:______________ Colour:____________

	EFA (WA) Registration No ____________  Registration Valid Until: ________(Year)

	 Date of Foaling:___ / ___ / ____  Height:________ 

	Brands - Near Side ___________  Off Side ___________ , to the Lessee.

Cost 		$45.00

Lessor's Signature .................................................................... Phone No .............................

Date ..........................................

Lessee's Signature .................................................................... Phone No .............................

Date .........................................
OFFICE USE ONLY         	Receipt No _____________________________ Date______________________

Ref: Registrar:Forms:Lease

dated 

Between	University of Technology, Sydney of 1 Broadway Ultimo NSW 2007 (ABN 77 257 686 961) ("the University")

and 							         ("the Staff Member") 	

1.	INTRODUCTION
a)	The Staff Member is employed by the University under a contract of employment.
b)	The University has decided to offer to the Staff Member an opportunity to enter into a salary packaging arrangement.  This is an arrangement under which Staff Members agree contractually to forego part of their remuneration that they would otherwise receive as salary or wages, in return for their employer or someone associated with their employer providing benefits of a similar value  ("Offer").
c)	The Staff Member accepts the University's offer.
d)	The University and the Staff Member agree to be bound by this Salary Packaging Agreement on the following terms and conditions.
2.	DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATIONS
       In this Salary Packaging Agreement unless the context indicates to the contrary:
2.1	"Salary package" includes salary and benefits that the Staff Member chooses to fund through a salary packaging arrangement.
2.2	"Benefit" means the good or service which, on request, is funded from the Staff Member's salary as part of a salary packaging arrangement and includes any cash payment made or expected to be made to the Staff Member by way of reimbursement of expenses incurred or expected to be incurred by the Staff Member.
2.3	"Offer" means the offer of the University to provide the Staff Member with the benefits as set out in the schedule.
2.4	"Salary" means regular periodical cash or electronic funds transfer payments made pursuant to the contract of employment subject to taxation and including other lawful deductions.
2.5	"Salary deduction" means that part of the Staff Member's salary that is set aside to cover the payment of benefits and includes liability for Fringe Benefits Tax, if any, and all administrative costs, expenses and charges.
2.6	"Schedule" means the schedule attached hereto setting out the salary and benefits to be provided to the Staff Member and the date from which the Staff Member's entitlement to receive such salary and benefits begins; and includes any new schedule that may be substituted from time to time varying the Staff Member's salary; and includes any motor vehicle agreement.
and other collateral agreements and benefit application forms signed by the Staff Member which are incidental to the provision of salary and benefits
       2.7	References to 
a)	parts, clauses, schedules, exhibits and annexures refer to them, of, in and to this Salary Packaging Agreement;
b)	this Salary Packaging Agreement includes all schedules, exhibits and annexures to it;
       c}	including, includes or include must be read as if it is followed by (without limitation);
       d)	a reference to a Party is to a Party to this Salary Packaging Agreement;
e)	a Party includes that Party's executors, administrators, substitutes, successors and permitted assigns;
       f)	a gender includes all genders;
g)	legislation or to a provision of legislation or to any other regulatory document (including University Rules, policies and guidelines) includes a modification, amendment, consolidation or re-enactment of it, a provision substituted for it and a regulation or statutory instrument issued under it; and a document is a reference to a document as amended, varied, supplemented, novated or replaced from time to time except to the extent prohibited by this Salary Packaging Agreement.
2.8	Where an expression is defined, any other part of speech or grammatical form of that expression has a corresponding meaning;
       2.9	The singular includes the plural and vice-versa;
       2.10	Headings do not affect the interpretation of this Salary Packaging Agreement;


SIGNED AS AN AGREEMENT BY



..................................................................	
Signature of Staff Member				


..................................................................
Name of Staff Member in block letters


..................................................................

Salary Packaging Administrator
For and on behalf of the University of Technology, Sydney



AGREEMENT - SALARY PACKAGING









AGREEMENT - SALARY PACKAGING 

Agreement - Salary Packaging - January 2003		2

MOTOR VEHICLE AGREEMENT - (Operating LeaseVehicles QUT)
 
THIS AGREEMENT is made on the		         day of	                	200
BETWEEN:

	QUEENSLAND UNIVERSITY OF TECHNOLOGY as described in item 1 of the Schedule to this Agreement ("the Schedule") of the one part;
	
AND

	THE EMPLOYEE as described in item 2 of the Schedule of the other part.

WHEREAS:
WHEREBY THE PARTIES AGREE AS FOLLOWS:

1	CONSTRUCTION
	
1.1	Definitions
	
	In this Agreement unless the context otherwise requires:
	
	"Benefits" means any non cash benefit and cash payment (other than the Employee's Salary) made or expected to be made for the benefit of the Employee and any cash payment made or expected to be made to the Employee by way of reimbursement of expenses incurred or expected to be incurred by the Employee.
	
	"Commencement Date" means the date specified in item 3 of the Schedule.
	
	"Expiry Date" means the date specified in item 4 of the Schedule.
		
	"Employee's Salary" means the Employee's remuneration by way of regular periodical cash payments subject to PAYE tax.
	
	"Salary Sacrifice" means that part of the Employee's Salary set aside to cover the payment of the Benefits and the Vehicle Costs.

	"Vehicle Costs" are the costs associated with the Vehicle as specified in Clause 4.
	
	"Vehicle Supplier" means the person or entity specified in item 5 of the Schedule.
	
	"Term" means the period commencing on the Commencement Date and ending on the Expiry Date or such earlier date as is provided for in Clause 6.
	
     1.2	Interpretation
	
University of Technology. 


IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties have hereunto set their respective hands on the day and the year first above written.


SIGNED FOR AND ON BEHALF QUEENSLAND UNIVERSITY OF TECHNOLOGY BY  ________________in the presence of: Witness

}
}....................................................




SIGNED by the Employee  _____________________________in the presence of:Witness

}
}....................................................

SCHEDULE
Item 1		Queensland University of Technology
		Address:  2 George Street Brisbane 4000.		
		A.B.N. 83 791 724 622..........................			
	
Item 2		the Employee
		Name:	.................................................		[employee name]
		Address:................................................		[employee address]

Item 3		Commencement Date	         /          /200

Item 4		Expiry Date		         /           /200.......
Item 5		Vehicle Supplier
		Name:.........................................			[supplier's name]
		Address:.......................................		[supplier's address]
		A.B.N. ..........................................		

Item 6		Governing Law		Queensland



1
C:\Remunerator\QUT forms\Operating Lease - Motor Vehicle Agreement.doc

CANTEEN AGREEMENT




Dated:
     


Between:
THE TRUSTEES OF THE ROMAN CATHOLIC 
CHURCH FOR THE ARCHDIOCESE OF SYDNEY



of one part


and:
     



of the other part
















Catholic Education Office, Sydney


CANTEEN AGREEMENT
THIS AGREEMENT is made on the date set out in Item 1 of the Schedule.
BETWEEN the Principal and the Contractor referred to in the Schedule.
Recitals
A. The school referred to in this agreement is conducted by the Trustees of the Roman Catholic Church for the Archdiocese of Sydney.
B. Delegated authority has been granted from the Trustees of the Roman Catholic Church for the Archdiocese of Sydney to the School Principal to enter into this agreement on its behalf up to a monetary amount of $50,000.00.  The delegation does not authorise the School Principal to alter any of the standard conditions in this Agreement.
C. This agreement supersedes all other arrangements and agreements relating to the work or services to be undertaken as described in this document.
D. The parties wish to enter into an Agreement for the provision of canteen services at the School on the terms set out in this Agreement.
Definitions
1. In this Agreement:
"Canteen"	means the Canteen at the School.
"Equipment"	means all fixtures, fittings, furniture, appliances, crockery, cutlery, glassware, cooking utensils and other such items in the Canteen as of the date hereof and as may be supplied to the Contractor from time to time by the School.
"Legislation"	means Food Act 1989, Public Health Act 1991 and any variation or amendment thereof and all other legislation or regulations in force from time to time affecting the operation of the Canteen.
"Premises"	means the buildings and the grounds.
"Principal"	means the party referred to in the Schedule to this agreement.
"Schedule"	means the Schedule annexed to this Agreement and forming part of it.
"School"	 means the premises described in the Schedule to this Agreement.
"School Principal"	means the Principal of the School from time to time or any person authorised to act on his or her behalf.
Operative Part



SCHEDULE
The "Principal" is the Trustees of the Roman Catholic Church for the Archdiocese of Sydney.
Item 1
     
day of
     
20
  
(Date)

(Month)

(Year)
Item 2
Name of Contractor
     

(Contractor)
of
     

(Address)
Item 3
School *
     


(School Name)


* conducted by the Trustees of the Roman Catholic Church for the Archdiocese of Sydney
Item 4
(Term of Agreement)
  
years commencing on
  
day of
     
20
  
* * terminating on
     
day of
     
20
  
* * terminating upon cancellation by the Contractor at any time after
     
day of
    
or upon cancellation by the School in accordance with Clause 4 of this Agreement.
(* Delete the inapplicable alternative)
Item 5
 
     
am to
     
pm
Item 6	
(Days* of Operation)
     

*All days upon which the School is open for pupils.
Item 7
(Time for Vacation of School)
     
Item 8
(Licence Fee)
     
Item 9
(Dates for Review of licence fee)
     
Item 10
(Amount of Public Liability Insurance-not less than $10m)
     

Item 11

Contractor Collection Notice (ref: Commonwealth Privacy Amendment (Private Sector) Act 2000)




1.



SIGNED FOR AND ON BEHALF OF THE TRUSTEES OF
)

THE ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH FOR THE
)

ARCHDIOCESE OF SYDNEY by the School Principal
)

who has authority to enter into this Agreement on
)

its behalf up to a monetary amount
)
School Principal (Signature)
of $50,000.00
)







Witness (Signature)


For Company Use


THE COMMON SEAL of
)

     
)

(Registered Company)


was hereunto affixed by the authority of
)

the Board of Directors in the presence of:
)




     

     
Name of Director

Name of Secretary

OR

For Private Contractor Use


SIGNED, SEALED AND DELIVERED BY:




Authorised Officer (Signature)
In the presence of:




     
Witness (Signature)

Name of Authorised Officer





     


Title of Authorised Officer

NORMAL.DOT (10/02/03) /FS00708A.DOT		6

NORMAL.DOT(10/02/03) / FS00708A.DOT 

CONFIDENTIALITY DEED


between


ROYAL MELBOURNE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
ABN 49 781 030 034
("RMIT")


and


***
ABN ***
("RECIPIENT")













File No:  ****

CONFIDENTIALITY DEED

THIS DEED is made the	day of	20    .
BETWEEN
ROYAL MELBOURNE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY ABN 49 781 030 034  of 124 La Trobe Street, Melbourne ("RMIT")
AND
The party described in Item 1 of the Schedule as the Recipient ("the Recipient")

RECITALS:
A. RMIT has Confidential Information relating to the subject described in Item 2 and other matters.
B. The Recipient has requested RMIT to allow it access to the Confidential Information for the Approved Purposes.
C. RMIT agrees to allow the Recipient to have access to the Confidential Information subject to the terms of this deed.
THIS DEED WITNESSES AND THE PARTIES AGREE:
1. DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATION
1.1 Definitions
In this deed (including the Recitals, the Schedules and the Annexure) unless the context otherwise requires:
"Annexure" means an annexure to this deed;
"Approved Purposes" means the purposes for which RMIT has approved disclosure of Confidential Information to the Recipient as set out in Item 3;
"Authorised Officer" means:
(a) in relation to a corporation, a person for the time being holding or acting in the office of the director, chief executive officer or secretary of that body corporate, or a person the title whose office at the body corporate includes the word "Manager" or the word "Director" or the like; and
(b) in relation to RMIT, any person authorised by RMIT from time to time act on behalf of RMIT;
"Confidential Information" means:
(a) all Information submitted or disclosed to the Recipient by RMIT; and
(b) all Information learned or accessed by the Recipient;
at any time in connection with the Approved Purposes (including during negotiations, discussions and meetings) and includes without limitation:
(c) Information which at the time of disclosure by RMIT is identified as being confidential;
(d) Information which, of implied necessity, is confidential;
(e) Information which the Recipient knows or ought reasonably be expected to know is confidential;
(f) any agreement, arrangement or understanding relating to the Approved Purposes;
(g) Information developed by the Recipient independently of the disclosure, communication or access from RMIT; or
(h) Information disclosed or communicated or accessed by the Recipient from a third party under no obligation of confidence to RMIT in respect of that Information;
but does not include Non-Confidential Information;
"Confidentiality Undertaking" means the undertaking in the form of Annexure "A";
"Information" means information, inventions and ideas, which may be:
(a) oral, written, recorded or stored by electronic, magnetic, electromagnetic, or in other form, process, media or otherwise in a machine readable form; or
(b) translated from the original form, re-compiled, made into a compilation, partially copied, modified, updated or otherwise altered;
"Item" means an item of the Schedule;
"Recipient's Personnel" means any person being an agent, adviser, sub-contractor, employee or other representative of the Recipient who has access to Confidential Information;
"Non-Confidential Information" means Information which:
(a) at the time of disclosure by RMIT to the Recipient or at any time thereafter is identified in writing by RMIT as such;
(b) is in the public domain otherwise than as a result of a breach of the terms of this deed or any other obligations of confidentiality owed by the Recipient;
(c) prior to disclosure by RMIT was lawfully known to the Recipient and in respect of which the Recipient to whom the Information was disclosed is not bound by any other obligations of confidentiality; or
(d) is found by final and binding court judgment to either not constitute Confidential Information or not otherwise be subject to any obligations under this deed;
"party" means a party to this deed;
"Schedule" means a schedule to this deed.
1.2 Interpretation
In this deed (including the Recitals, the Schedule and the Annexure) unless the context otherwise requires:
(a) if any party to this deed comprises two or more persons then the obligations of those persons are joint and several;
(b) a provision of this deed (including any deed, representation or warranty) which is in favour of two or more persons is for the benefit of them jointly and severally;
(c) a reference to any person includes that person's legal personal representatives and if any person is a corporation a reference to that person includes its successors and assigns.  The word "person" also includes a firm, a body corporate, an unincorporated association, an authority or body politic;
(d) words denoting the singular number include the plural number and vice versa and words importing one gender include the other genders;
(e) references to writing include any mode of representing or reproducing words in tangible and permanently visible form;
(f) references to this deed include its recitals and any Schedule or Annexure;
(g) unless otherwise provided in this deed references to clauses are to clauses in this deed;
(h) unless otherwise provided in this deed a party which acts as a trustee of a trust or trusts executes this deed both in its own right and as trustee of that trust or trusts and in so doing is not acting in breach of trust.

2. CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION
2.1 The Recipient undertakes to keep secret and protect and preserve the confidential nature and secrecy of the Confidential Information.  Without limiting this obligation, the Recipient must not:
(a) use or permit any person to use the Confidential Information for any purpose other than for the Approved Purposes;
(b) disclose or in any way communicate to any other person any of the Confidential Information except as authorised by RMIT;
(c) permit unauthorised persons to have access to places where the Confidential Information is displayed, reproduced or stored; or
(d) make or assist any person to make any unauthorised use of the Confidential Information.
2.2 The Recipient must:
(a) take reasonable steps to enforce the confidentiality obligations imposed by clause 2.1 including diligently prosecuting, at its own cost, any breach or threatened breach of those obligations by a person to whom the Recipient has disclosed the Confidential Information; and
(b) co-operate and provide RMIT with all reasonable assistance, in any action which it may take to protect the confidentiality of the Confidential Information.
3. RECIPIENT'S PERSONNEL
The Recipient indemnifies RMIT against any cost, liability, damage or loss incurred or suffered by RMIT arising directly or indirectly from or in connection with:
(a) any breach by of this deed the Recipient; or
(b) any act or omission of the Recipient's Personnel which, if done or omitted to be done by the Recipient, would constitute a breach of this deed.
6.3 Injunctive Relief

EXECUTED as a deed.


SIGNED for and on behalf of ROYAL MELBOURNE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY ABN 49 781 030 034 by a duly authorised officer






in the presence of:	
)
)
))


.....................................................
Signature


.....................................................
Name & Title


.....................................................
Witness Signature

.....................................................

.....................................................

.....................................................
Name & Address of Witness



THE COMMON SEAL of ORGANISATION ABN ** was hereunto affixed in accordance with its Articles of Association in the presence of:
)
)
)
)



	
Director


	
Director/Secretary


	
Name of Director (block letters)


	
Name of Director/Secretary (block letters)

SCHEDULE

Item 1:
Recipient
*** of ***
Item 2:
Subject of Confidential Information
[Describe the general subject of the Confidential Information which will be disclosed to the Recipient.]
Item 3:
Approved Purposes
[Describe the purpose for which the Confidential Information has been given to the Recipient.  Make the Approved Purposes as specific as possible.]
Item 4:
Notices
(a) RMIT
Facsimile No:	***
addressed to the attention of:
***

(b) Recipient
Facsimile No:	***
addressed to the attention of:
***

Item 5:
Special Conditions
***

ANNEXURE "A"
Confidentiality Undertaking - to be executed by the Recipient's Personnel.
THIS Confidentiality Undertaking is made on	20    .
BY
[specify the name of individual] of [specify address] ("Covenantor")
IN FAVOUR OF
ROYAL MELBOURNE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY ABN 49 781 030 034 of 124 La Trobe Street, Melbourne, VIC 3000 ("RMIT").
RECITALS
A. The Covenantor is one of the Recipient's Personnel.
SIGNED by [insert full name of Covenantor] in the presence of:
)
)
)

	
Covenantor
	
Witness
	
Name of witness
	
	
Address of witness





_______________________________________________
Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology
Legal Services
GPO Box 2476V, Melbourne, VIC 3001
Ph: 9925 3180
Fax: 9925 3047



S:\CALS\LEGAL\Precedents\Confid1.doc	11
10-Apr-11
STUDENT PROJECT AGREEMENT

THIS AGREEMENT is made on 	    2007.
BETWEEN:
The University of Melbourne [ABN 84 002 705 224] of Parkville, Victoria 3010, 
("the University")
And
Organisation Name [ABN Insert ABN] of Address
("Abbreviation").
RECITALS
A.	The University, through its Department of Electrical and Electronic Engineering, has a research interest in Insert Project Code & Title.
B.	Abbreviation is Insert a 1-line explanation of who the other party are and what they do.
C.	The Parties have decided to collaborate on the following terms and conditions in order to facilitate the undertaking of research projects by students of the University.

IT IS AGREED AS FOLLOWS
1.	DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATION
1.1	Definitions
Background Intellectual Property means Intellectual Property owned or controlled by a Party, including but not limited to Intellectual Property developed prior to or independently of this Agreement, which the Party determines, in its sole discretion, to make available for the carrying out of Research.
	Business Day means a weekday on which banks are open in Melbourne.
	Commencement Date means the date specified in Item 1 of the Schedule.
	Confidential Information means and includes all unpatented inventions, ideas, know-how, concepts, trade secrets, processes, techniques, software, products and any and all other intellectual property, financial and business information and all other commercially valuable information of the Disclosing Party which the Disclosing Party regards as confidential to it and all copies, notes and records and all related information generated by the Receiving Party based on or arising out of any such disclosure.
	Disclosing Party means the Party that is disclosing Confidential Information.
Improvement means any improvement, advancement, modification, adaptation or the like.
Intellectual Property means all rights resulting from intellectual activity whether capable of protection by statute, common law or in equity and including copyright, discoveries, inventions, patent rights, registered and unregistered trade marks, design rights, circuit layouts and plant varieties and all rights and interests of a like nature, together with any documentation relating to such rights and interests.
Notice has the meaning given in Clause 9.
Parties means the parties to this Agreement and their respective successors and permitted assigns, and "Party" means either one of them.
	Personnel of a party means that party's employees, agents, students, contractors, consultants, directors, officers and sub-licensees (appointed pursuant to this Agreement).
		Program Intellectual Property or Program IP means the Intellectual Property which is created, developed or discovered as a result of conducting the Research.
	Product means any article or thing which incorporates all or any of the Program Intellectual Property.
	Receiving Party means the Party that is receiving Confidential Information.
Research means the research to be conducted by the Parties in accordance with this Agreement as described in Item 3 of the Schedule. 
	Term means the term specified in Item 2 of the Schedule.
2.	OBLIGATIONS OF THE PARTIES(i) to Abbreviation:

		Attn:   
		Fax No:	
	(c)	will be taken to be duly given or made:
		(i)	in the case of delivery in person, when delivered;
		(ii)	in the case of delivery by post, two Business Days after the date of posting; and
		(iii)	in the case of fax, on receipt by the sender of a transmission control report from the despatching machine,
		but if the result is that a Notice would be taken to be given or made on a day which is not a Business Day, or is later than 4.00pm (local time), it will be taken to have been duly given or made on the next Business Day.
10.	DISPUTE RESOLUTION
EXECUTED in Melbourne by the Parties on the day and year first above mentioned.

SIGNED FOR AND ON BEHALF OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MELBOURNE   
[ABN 84 002 705 224] by

in the presence of:


..........................................................
Witness


..........................................................
Print Name




)
)   ......................................................
)                             Signature

    .......................................................
         Print Name


SIGNED FOR AND ON BEHALF OF Organisation Name 
[Insert ABN]by

in the presence of:


..............................................................
Witness


..............................................................
Print Name






)
)  ........................................................
)                    Signature

   ........................................................
Print Name



SCHEDULE


Item 1: Commencement Date 
1st January 2007

Item 2: Term
One year, ending on 31st December 2007

Item 3: Research to be Conducted
Insert Project Description

Item 4: Resources to be supplied by the University:
Supervision of student researchers by appropriate staff
Laboratory facilities and associated technical support
Academic support
Access to equipment and budgetary resources

Item 5: Resources to be supplied by Insert Abbreviation:
Access to staff as appropriate
Advice and guidance in relation to 'real-world' applications as appropriate



2






DFAT Funding Agreement
Between:
Commonwealth of Australia, represented by the Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade (ABN 47 065 634 525), RG Casey Building, John McEwen Crescent, Barton ACT 0221 ("DFAT")


and 


[insert Funding Recipient's name] (ABN [insert ABN]) of [insert address] ("Funding Recipient")



Recitals:

 
A	The objective of the Project is to [insert objective]  
8.1 Definitions
      In this agreement, unless the contrary intention appears:
Budget refers to the budget set out in Schedule 1;
Business Day means in relation to the doing of any action in a place, any day other than a Saturday, Sunday, or public holiday in that place;
Completion Date means the day after the Funding Recipient has done all that the Funding Recipient is required to do under this agreement to the satisfaction of DFAT;
Existing Material means all material in existence prior to the Commencement Date:
(a) incorporated in; 
(b) supplied with, or as part of; or 
(c) required to be supplied with, or as part of,
the Project Material;
Funding or Funds means:
(a) the amount or amounts (in cash or kind) payable under this agreement by DFAT to the Funding Recipient as specified in Schedule 1 as "DFAT Funding"; and 
(b) where referring to the Funding Recipient's use of, reporting, or acquittal of funds, includes any interest earned on those funds;
Funding Recipient and Funding Recipient's personnel includes the Funding Recipient's officers, employees, volunteers, agents and subcontractors.
GST has the meaning as given in section 195-1 of the A New Tax System (Goods and Services Tax) Act 1999;
Insolvent means being an insolvent under administration or insolvent (each as defined in the Corporations Act 2001), or being in receivership, in receivership and management, in liquidation, in provisional liquidation, under administration, wound up, subject to any arrangement, assignment, or composition, protected from creditors under any statute, dissolved (other than to carry out a reconstruction while solvent) or being otherwise unable to pay debts when they fall due or having something with the same or a similar effect happen under the laws of any jurisdiction.
Other Contributions means financial or in-kind resources (with in-kind resources valued at market rates) for the Project, other than the Funding;
Phase means a stage of completion of the Project identified as a phase in Schedule 2;
Project means the project and related activities described in Schedule 2; 
Project Account means a separate account which must be established and used solely for the purposes of carrying out the Project, in the Funding Recipient's name and which the Funding Recipient solely controls, with an authorised deposit-taking institution authorised under the Banking Act 1959 to carry on banking business in Australia.  The account must require two signatures for its operation;
Project Material means any material brought into existence as part of, or for the purpose of, the Project;
Project Period means the period specified in Schedule 2 during which the Project must be completed;
Receiver includes a receiver or receiver and manager.
Records include documents, receipts, ledgers, invoices, information and data stored by any means and all copies and extracts of the same;
Reports has the meaning given in Schedule 2; and
Term means the period from the Commencement Date to the Completion Date.
8.2 Headings
Headings (including those in brackets at the beginning of paragraphs) are for convenience only and do not affect the interpretation of this agreement.
8.3 Interpretation
In this agreement, unless the contrary intention appears:
(a)	words in the singular number include the plural and words in the plural number include the singular;
(b)	words importing persons include a partnership and a body whether corporate or otherwise;
(c)	all references to dollars are to Australian dollars and this agreement uses Australian currency; and
(d)	reference to any statute or other legislation (whether primary or subordinate) is to a statute or other legislation of the Commonwealth and, if it has been or is amended, is a reference to that statute or other legislation as amended.
8.4 Inconsistency
If there is any inconsistency between:
(a) the body of this agreement and a Schedule, the body of this agreement prevails to the extent of the inconsistency;
(b) between Schedules, the Project Details (Schedule 2) will prevail to the extent of the inconsistency;
(c) the contents of a Schedule, the body of the Schedule will take priority over any sub-documents.  The sub-documents have equal status.

EXECUTED as an agreement.

Signing page

SIGNED for and on behalf of the COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA represented by the Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade by:

..................................................
print name







................................................................
sign here
in the presence of:


.................................................
print name of witness



................................................................
witness sign here


DATE: ______________________ 



SIGNED by [insert name] as authorised representative for [insert name of Funding Recipient] in the presence of:


	
Signature of witness

	
Name of witness (block letters)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)








	
By executing this agreement the signatory warrants that the signatory is duly authorised to execute this agreement on behalf of [Funding Recipient]


DATE: ______________________ 


SCHEDULE 1 - BUDGET AND PROMOTIONAL MATERIAL
1 Approved Budget
1.1 The Funding Recipient must use the Funds only in accordance with the Budget, which is set out in the table below:

Budget Item (categories of expenditure)
DFAT Funding
Other Contributions (money)
Other Contributions (in-kind) 
Source of Other Contributions
Total












[Insert other]





Total




The primary point of contact for DFAT will be:

	[Insert name of contact, position, address, telephone, fax number, email address]

1.2	The primary point of contact for the Funding Recipient will be:

	[Insert name of contact, position, address, telephone, fax number, email address]

2.	The Project
2.1	The 'Goal', or primary purpose, of this agreement is to [...insert purpose...].
2.2	In pursuit of this Goal, "Project" means [what the project involves e.g.: the provision of an interactive online service etc] and is constituted by the following objectives, Project activities, phases / milestones and performance indicators.
3.	Objectives
3.1	The Project's objectives [...insert what the objectives of the project are...]
3.2	The Project is designed to [...insert what the project is designed to do...] 
4.	Project Period

4.1	The Project shall commence on [...insert date...] and end on [...insert date...] or on earlier completion of the Project.
5.	Activities
5.1	In pursuit of the above objectives and within the Project Period, the Funding Recipient will undertake the following activities:
(a) [...insert the activities for the project...] 
(b) [...insert the activities for the project...] 
(c) [...insert the activities for the project...] 

6.	Project Phases / Milestones

6.1	The Phases / Milestones for the Project are as follows:

Phase / Milestone
Description of Phase
Expected Outcomes
Date for Completion
1
Insert details as applicable and rows as necessary


2





7.	Funding Schedule
Payment No.
Amount AUD
Date for Payment
1
[Insert amounts as applicable and rows as necessary]
[insert date]
2


8.	Insurance
8.1	The Funding Recipient is required to take out and maintain insurance as specified below:

No.
Amount AUD
Category
1
$10 million per event, unlimited in aggregate
Public liability insurance
2
As required by law [insert amount]
Workers' compensation insurance
3
[Insert amounts as applicable and rows as necessary]
[insert category]
9.	Key Performance Indicators 
9.1	The Funding Recipient's key performance indicators are:

No
Funding Recipient obligation 
Performance Indicator
1
[insert details of Funding Recipient's obligation]
[insert performance indicator]
2




10.	Reports
10.1	The Funding Recipient is to provide the following Reports to DFAT on the date specified:

Report Type
Indicative Content
Due Date
Progress Report # 1
A summary of the following information for the reporting period: 
* [...insert details...]
[...insert date...]
Progress Report # 2
A summary of the following information for the reporting period: 
* [...insert details...]
[...insert date...]
Final Report
[...insert date...]


AICC Grants Program-Acquittal Form
The Australia International Cultural Council is an initiative
of the Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade
NAME

Name of your organisation/group (if applicable):

Your name or name of contact person:
Title:
 Mr
 Ms
 Other (please specify)

Given names:

Family name:

(d) 
CONTACT DETAILS


Street address:

Suburb/Town:

State:

Postcode:

Postal address:


(if the same as your street address, write 'as above')
Suburb/Town:

State:

Postcode:

Telephone: Work:
(     )

Home:
(      )

Fax:
(      )

Mobile: 

Email:


SUMMARY INFORMATION

Grant amount? (AUD)$

What was the start date for the funded activity?
/
/


What was the end date for the funded activity?
/
/


Briefly describe your activity

Where was the activity undertaken?
Please include names of cities and countries



ADMINISTERING ORGANISATION/INDIVIDUAL (IF APPLICABLE)

Legal name of organisation or individual administering the grant

Street address:

Suburb/Town:

State:

Postcode:

Postal address:


(if the same as your street address, write 'as above')
Suburb/Town:

State:

Postcode:

Telephone: Work
(      )

Home
(      )

Fax:
(     )

Mobile: 

Email:

Signature:
?

Date:
/
/

Name in full: 

Position in organisation:




CERTIFICATION OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
I, the undersigned, certify that:
* The following financial statements are in agreement with the relevant accounts and records and have been prepared in compliance with Australian Accounting Standards to present fairly the financial transactions in relation to the particular AICC Grant.

Signature:
?

Date:
/
/

Name in full: 

Position title/company:


Please note: As in the application form, if you are GST-registered, your acquittal budget should be exclusive of GST. You should provide amounts in Australian dollars (AUD$). If you are not GST-registered, your acquittal budget should include GST as this was part of the cost of the project.
Income


Expenditure 

Earned income
AUD$

Salaries and fees
AUD$



Artists/key personnel (please itemise)




Marketing and publicity personnel




Administrative and management personnel




Agent's fee/commission




Travel allowance (_per diem x _persons x _days)

	Subtotal
$

Other

All other grant income received




Federal Government (please itemise)









State Government (please itemise)


	Subtotal
$



Direct costs




Airfares (__ persons x ____ ticket cost)




Freight

Local Government (please itemise)


Insurance




Overseas surface travel




Venue hire

Other









Subtotal
$



Own contribution


Subtotal
$



Overhead/administrative costs




Postage

In Kind


Telephone and fax




Stationery and printing
$



Other

	Subtotal
$

	Subtotal

Sponsorship/donations


Marketing/promotion costs




Advertising - press




Advertising - electronic media




Printed material




Photography




Programs

In Kind


Merchandise




Other

	Subtotal
$

	Subtotal
$
AICC Grants Program Funding
$

Contingency

Total Income
$

Total Expenditure
$



PROJECT INFORMATION

Please describe, in general terms, the impact of the AICC grant funding received
































Were there any changes to the project-either in its scope or budget?  If so, please provide details here.

















Please provide details of any workshops or seminars undertaken in conjunction with the project.















Please describe the marketing tools/strategies utilised for the project


















Outcomes
Please describe the level and nature of media interest in your project













Please describe the level of involvement/engagement of the local community in your project
















Please provide an overview of any formal and informal feedback from presenters, workshop / lecture participants and other project partners on the project













Please provide details of any subsequent interest in either the artists / company as a result of the project












Statistical information

Please provide approximate numbers against each of the following categories:

Number of performances presented / exhibition days / film screenings / community events (circle relevant category for the project)

Number of countries visited

Number of artists/cultural workers involved in the project

Total attendance numbers for performance/exhibition key events

Average audience attendance at performance/exhibition key events

Number of ancillary workshops/seminars held (if relevant)

Average attendance at workshops/seminars (if relevant)

Was this an Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander arts/culture related activity?







  
User's Guide to the Funding Agreement Template

17



 

(c) Commonwealth of Australia 2008


1







  
DFAT Funding Agreement

2


DFAT Funding Agreement

2
  
DFAT Funding Agreement








? Mallesons Stephen Jaques
9255178_4
DFAT Funding Agreement
12 September 2008
17


DFAT Funding Agreement

  
DFAT Funding Agreement

10




DFAT Funding Agreement

11
   
DFAT Funding Agreement




DFAT Funding Agreement

  
DFAT Funding Agreement

17




DFAT Funding Agreement

14
  
DFAT Funding Agreement








Annexure A

  
DFAT Funding Agreement

15
    











CONTRACTOR/CONSULTANT AGREEMENT (Sole Trader version)

This Agreement dated ______________ is between:
1. The University of New South Wales (ABN 57 195 873 179) (UNSW); and
2. [Insert name of individual (ABN [insert])(Contractor),
and comprises the Schedule, the Terms and Conditions, Annexure A (if indicated in Item 6 of the Schedule) and Annexure B (if indicated in Item 13 of the Schedule).
SCHEDULE
AGREEMENT TERM
Item 1 (cl 2.1)
Commencement date:
[insert date]
Item 2 (cl 2.1)
Termination date:
[insert date]
Item 3 (cl 15.1)
Notice required to terminate the Agreement:
[insert notice period - normally 4 weeks]
CONTACT DETAILS 
Item 4 (cl 18.3)
UNSW's address
Contact person: [insert]
Address: [insert]
Telephone: [insert]
Email: [insert]
Contractor's address
Contact person: [insert]
Address: [insert]
Mobile: [insert]
Email: [insert]
SERVICES TO BE PROVIDED BY THE CONTRACTOR
Item 5 (cl 3.1)
Description of Services
* 
Item 6 (cl 3.1(b))
Service standards
* Not applicable
* In accordance with Annexure A
Item 7 (cl 3.1(c))
Timetable for provision of services:
?  Not applicable
?  In accordance with the following timetable:

Date:
[Insert date]
[Insert date]
Milestone:
[Insert Milestone]
[Insert Milestone]
Instalment
$[insert amount]
$[insert amount]
Item 8 (cl 5.2)
Equipment or facilities to be provided by UNSW for the Contractor's use
* Not applicable
* Office (including desk)
* Access to telephone
* Access to computer
* Access to photocopying
* UNSW email address
* Car parking (fee applies)
* Other - [insert] 
CONTRACTOR'S FEE
Item 9 (cl 6)
Contractor's Fee:
$[insert] (including GST and superannuation) per [insert period - fortnight, month, session] 
OR [Insert schedule of fees and payments]
OR [In accordance with the timetable set out in Item 7]
Item 10 (cl 7)
Contractor's Expenses payable by the UNSW:
* Not applicable
* Travel
* Other - [insert]
INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY
Item 11 (cl 8)
IP arising from or in connection with the Services:
* UNSW will own IP
* Contractor will own IP
* IP Arrangements as per special conditions
INSURANCE POLICIES
Item 12 (cl 10.1)
Insurance policies that Contractor must effect:
* Public liability insurance (at least $10 million) (mandatory)
* Professional indemnity insurance (required unless Business Unit waives requirement)
* Other - [insert]
SPECIAL CONDITIONS
Item 13 (cl 14)
Special conditions
* Not applicable
* In accordance with Annexure B


TERMS AND CONDITIONS
1. 
1. DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATION
1.1. In this Agreement:
(a) Agreement Term means the term in clause 2.1, including any extension under clause 2.2. 
(b) Confidential Information means any information (whether oral, writing or electronic) relating to a party that is not publicly available (other than by breach of this Agreement) and that by its nature is confidential (including but not limited to trade secrets and know how).
(c) Fee means the fee payable under Item 9.
(d) GST means Goods and Services Tax. 
(e) Intellectual Property means all statutory and other proprietary rights in respect of inventions, copyright, trade marks, designs, patents, know-how, trade secrets and all other rights as defined by Article 2 of the Convention establishing the World Intellectual Property Organisation of July 1967 and all rights to apply for the same.
(f) Personal Information has the meaning given to it in the Privacy and Personal Information Protection Act 1998 (NSW) (PPIP Act).
(g) Services means the services in Item 6.
(h) UNSW means the University of New South Wales and its officers, agents and employees.
1.2. In this Agreement, unless the contrary appears:
(a) The singular includes the plural and vice versa.
(b) A reference to a person includes a body corporate or partnership and includes that person's successors, administrators, executors and assigns.
(c) A reference to a law includes any amendment to it or replacement of it.
1.3. Headings are inserted for convenience only and do not affect the interpretation of this Agreement. 
2. AGREEMENT TERM



ANNEXURE A - SERVICE STANDARDS



[Insert service standards if applicable]


ANNEXURE B - SPECIAL CONDITIONS

In addition to the standard terms and conditions, the parties agree to the following special conditions:

[Insert any special conditions]








- 1 -


- 2 -


- 3 -

Annexure A to Contractor Agreement

Annexure B to Contractor Agreement
SERVICE AGREEMENT

THIS SERVICE AGREEMENT is made on the date set out in Schedule 1 hereto

BETWEEN

GEO INSTRUMENTS PTY. LIMITED a company incorporated in the State of New South Wales whose office is situated at 348 Rocky Point Rd., Ramsgate in the State of New South Wales (hereinafter with its successors and assigns referred to as "GEO INSTRUMENTS") of the one part AND the CLIENT being the person whose name and address appears in Schedule 2 hereto (hereinafter with its successors in title and permitted assigns referred to as "the CLIENT") of the other part

WHEREAS

The CLIENT is desirous of obtaining from GEO INSTRUMENTS certain technical services and GEO INSTRUMENTS is desirous of providing those technical services to the CLIENT upon the terms and conditions hereinafter, contained.

NOW IT IS HEREBY AGREED as follows:-

1.      SERVICES
2.      PAYMENT

(a)     the charges for the provision of the services described in clause 1 shall be as described in the Specifications.
 
(b)     the payment schedule for the said services shall be made according to the Specifications.

(c)     subject to the Specifications all sums becoming due and payable to GEO INSTRUMENTS by the CLIENT shall be pay-able to GEO INSTRUMENTS at its office hereinbefore described, in Australian dollars AND IT IS HEREBY AGREED AND DECLARED that any sum of money to be paid or tendered by either party hereto shall be validly and effectually paid or tendered if such payment is given, delivered or made in legal currency or by bank cheque or by the party's own cheque after presentment and clearance.


SCHEDULE .... 1

The date of this Service
Agreement is :			15 January 2001


SCHEDULE .... 2

Name of CLIENT:		Jervois Mining N.L.

Address of CLIENT:		Level 4, 114 William Street,
			MELBOURNE  VIC  3000


SCHEDULE .... 3

List of Annexed Documents:

	A.		Specifications for Airborne Geophysical Survey

	B.		Aircraft, Instrumentation and Personnel

	C.		Data Processing

	D.		Final Data Presentation and Deliverable Items

	E.		Pricing and Payment Schedule


SCHEDULE .... 4


The Period for Removal of Force Majeure:   Sixty (60) days


SCHEDULE .... 5

INSURANCE MAXIMA:


Workers' Compensation:	Full Benefits and
			Unlimited Common Law Liability

Public Liability:		$A 10 million





IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have executed this Agreement.


JERVOIS MINING N.L. 


Signed:		.................................................................



By:		.................................................................
.


Position:		.................................................................



In the presence of:	.................................................................



Date:		.................................................................




GEO INSTRUMENTS PTY LIMITED



Signed		.................................................................



By:		Roger Henderson



Position:		General Manager



In the presence of:	.................................................................



Date:		.................................................................





CONTENTS

CLAUSE		HEADING					PAGE


	1.		Service						1

	2.		Payment						1

	3.		Terms						1

	4.		Geo Instruments Default					2

	5.		Liability and Insurance					2

	6.		Client's Default					3

	7.		Proprietary Information
			 Duplication and Disclosure					3

	8.		Changes						4

	9.		Waivers and Remedies					4

	10.		Premature Termination					4	

	11.		Arbitration						5

	12.		Governing Law					5

	13.		Partial Invalidity					5

	14.		Taxation						5

	15.		Stamp Duty						6

	16.		Notice						6

	17.		Entire Agreement					6

	18.		Interpretation						6



	SCHEDULES

	Schedule 1.	Date of Agreement			 		7

	Schedule 2.	Client Description			 		7

	Schedule 3.	List of Annexed Documents					7

	Schedule 4.	The Period for Removal of Force Majeure				7

	Schedule 5.	Insurance Maxima					7



	Service Agreement							Page 

	Service Agreement							Page 

Ref:Proposals/Kc1029b-Serv Agreement

Ref: Proposals/Kc1029b-Serv Agreement

Service Agreement




PLANNING AND ENVIRONMENT ACT 1987




SECTION 173 AGREEMENT




Between


BASS COAST SHIRE COUNCIL


 and 


[INSERT NAME/S] 





in relation to



Land at [Insert]



THIS AGREEMENT is made the		day of				200  


BETWEEN

1. BASS COAST SHIRE COUNCIL of 76 McBride Avenue, Wonthaggi Victoria (hereinafter called "the Responsible Authority") and

2. [Insert name/s] of [insert address] (hereinafter called "the Owner"):


WHEREAS:

A.	The Owner is the owner and registered by the Registrar of Titles as the proprietor of an estate in fee simple in the land at [insert street address], being Lot X on Plan of Subdivision XXX and more particularly described in Certificate of Title Volume XXX Folio XXX (hereinafter called "the subject land").

B.	The Responsible Authority is responsible for the administration and enforcement of the Bass Coast Planning Scheme (hereinafter called "the Planning Scheme") pursuant to the provisions of the Planning and Environment Act 1987 (hereinafter called "the Act").

C.	On [insert date], the Responsible Authority issued Planning Permit Number XXX allowing the [insert use and/or development] of [insert particulars] (hereinafter called "the Planning Permit"). 

D.	Condition [insert number] of the Planning Permit requires the Owner to enter into this Agreement to provide for the matters set out in that Condition.  

E. The Responsible Authority and the Owner have agreed that, without restricting or limiting their respective powers to enter into this Agreement, and insofar as it can be so treated, this Agreement is an agreement entered into pursuant to Section 173 of the Act.

F. The Responsible Authority and the Owner have entered into this Agreement in order to achieve or advance the objectives of planning in Victoria or the objectives of the Planning Scheme.

IT IS AGREED AS FOLLOWS:

Definitions 

1.	In this Agreement unless inconsistent with the context or subject matter:

1.1	"Act" means the Planning and Environment Act 1987;

1.2	"Agreement" means this Agreement and any agreement executed by the parties varying or expressed to be supplemental to this Agreement;

1.3	"Subject land" means the land described in Recital A;

1.4	"Owner" means the owner for the time being of the land and the person or persons entitled from time to time to be registered by the Registrar of Titles as the proprietor of an estate in fee simple in the land or any part thereof, and includes a Mortgagee in possession;

1.5	"Planning Permit" mean the planning permit referred to in Recital C, including any plans endorsed under the planning permit;

1.6	"Planning Scheme" means the Bass Coast Planning Scheme and any successor instrument or other planning scheme which applies to the subject land;

1.7	"Responsible Authority" means Bass Coast Shire Council or its successor as the authority responsible for administering and enforcing the Planning Scheme and includes its agents, officers, employees, servants, workers and contractors; and

1.8	"Tribunal" means the Victorian Civil and Administrative Tribunal or any successor tribunal, court, institution or body.
Interpretation

2.	In this Agreement unless inconsistent with the context or subject matter:

2.1 The singular includes the plural and the plural includes the singular;

2.2 A reference to a gender includes a reference to each other gender;

2.3 A reference to a person includes a reference to a firm, corporation, association or other entity and their successors in law;

2.4 If a party consists of more than one person this Agreement binds them jointly and each of them severally;

2.5 A reference to a statute includes any statute amending, consolidating or replacing that statute and includes any subordinate instruments made under that statute;

2.6 The Recitals to this Agreement are and will be deemed to form part of this Agreement including any terms defined within the Recitals.

Specific Obligations of the Owner

3.	The Owner covenants with the Responsible Authority that:

3.1	[Insert specific covenants to be included in Agreement].

Further Obligations of the Owner

4.	The Owner further covenants that:


EXECUTED by the parties on the date set out at the commencement of this Agreement:



THE COMMON SEAL OF BASS COAST	)
SHIRE COUNCIL was affixed in the 	)
presence of:					)



.............................................
Chief Executive Officer




If an individual:

SIGNED, SEALED AND DELIVERED	)
by the said XXXXXX				)
in the presence of:				)


.............................................
Witness 




If a company with no common seal:


Executed by XXXXXXXXXX		)
PTY LTD by being signed by those 	)	
persons who are authorised to 		)
sign for the company:			)


.............................................		.............................................
Director					Secretary

.............................................		.............................................
Full Name					Full Name

.............................................		.............................................
Usual Address				Usual Address





AGREEMENT

THIS AGREEMENT is made BETWEEN THE CLUB MANAGERS' ASSOCIATION AUSTRALIA, an organisation of employees duly registered pursuant to the provisions of the Industrial Relations Act 1988 (C'wth) of 67-73 St. Hilliers Road, Auburn in the State of New South Wales (hereinafter called "CMAA") of the one part AND the party described in Item 1 of the Schedule hereto (hereinafter called "the Hirer") of the other part.

WHEREAS:
A. CMAA is the sub-leasee of premises situated at and known as Suite 2, Ground Floor, 67-73 St. Hilliers Road, Auburn in the said State pursuant to Sub-Lease registered number 1/220080.
B. Within the said premises are located:
i. large training rooms known as the Evennett Room and Harbutt Room
ii. training room known as the Cameron Room
iii. a computer training room known as the Robinson Room
iv. training room known as the Henry Room
v. a boardroom
C. Together with certain office furniture and equipment including desks, chairs, fixed and mobile whiteboards, electronic whiteboard, flip charts, overhead projectors, televisions and video players.
D. The Hirer wishes to hire from the CMAA the room, rooms, or theatre, office furniture and equipment hereover specified upon the terms hereinafter appearing.

NOW THIS AGREEMENT WITNESSES that in consideration of the mutual covenants and agreements contained herein:

1. INTERPRETATION
i. In the interpretation of this Agreement, unless the context requires otherwise:
a) "the CMAA" means the CMAA and its successors and assigns.
b) "the Hirer" means the Hirer and his/her/its or their successors and assigns.
c) words importing the singular number shall include the plural number and words importing the plural number shall include the singular number; and
d) words importing the masculine gender, the feminine gender or the neuter gender shall include all genders.
e) a reference to a person includes any other entity recognized by law and vice versa
f) clause headings are for reference purposes only.
In case any one or more of the provisions herein contained shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions hereof shall not in any case be affected or impaired thereby.
The covenants, provisions, terms and agreements contained herein between CMAA and the Hirer comprise the whole of the agreement between CMAA and the Hirer and CMAA and the Hirer expressly agree and declare that no further or other covenants, provisions, terms or agreements shall be deemed to be implied herein or to arise between CMAA and the Hirer by way of collateral or other agreement or by reason of any promise, representation, warranty or undertaking given or made by or on behalf of the CMAA or the Hirer on or prior to the execution hereof and any such implication or collateral or other agreement is hereby negatived.

2. AGREEMENT TO HIRE















THIS DEED is made the                                       day of	200
BETWEEN:  	[INSERT LEGAL NAME AND ABN] of [INSERT ADDRESS],
South Australia	("SSO")
AND:	[INSERT LEGAL NAME AND ABN] of [INSERT ADDRESS]      
	("Region")
AND:	[INSERT LEGAL NAME AND ABN] of [INSERT ADDRESS]	("Club")
RECITAL
The parties have agreed to enter into this Deed to:
(a) commit to a co-ordinated and directed approach for the future of the sport of [insert Sport] throughout New South Wales ("Commitment"); and
(b) undertake agreed obligations and services in respect to the Commitment.
IT IS AGREED as follows
1. INTERPRETATION
EXECUTION
THE COMMON SEAL of SSO
ABN                    was affixed to this document in accordance with its constitution in the presence of:
)
))
)
)
)



Signature of director/secretary 

Signature of director
Name of director/secretary (please print)

Name of director (please print)
THE COMMON SEAL of REGION
ABN                     was affixed to this document in accordance with its constitution in the presence of:
)
))
)
)
)



Signature of director/secretary 

Signature of director
Name of director/secretary (please print)

Name of director (please print)
THE COMMON SEAL of CLUB
ABN                   was affixed to this document in accordance with its constitution in the presence of:
)
))
)
)
)



Signature of director/secretary 

Signature of director
Name of director/secretary (please print)

Name of director (please print)




Schedules of Obligations and Services to be included
SSO - Schedule 1

Region - Schedule 2

Club - Schedule 3




2
	




NON-DISCLOSURE AGREEMENT



This Agreement is between:  


_______________________________________ of _________________________

(DISCLOSER)



And


_______________________________________ of _________________________

s
The above constitutes the full and complete Agreement in this matter by and between the parties hereto.


IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the RECIPIENT has executed this Agreement by its duly authorised officer or representative.




Signed for the DISCLOSER 		Signed for the RECIPIENT 




Signature __________________ 		Signature __________________



Name _____________________		Name _____________________



Title ______________________		Title ______________________



Date ______________________		Date ______________________


Non-Disclosure Agreement





2
Tag It Safe Version 1/2009


Non-Disclosure Agreement

1
Tag It Safe Version 1/2009
HR Legal






DEED OF STANDING OFFER


between the


Commonwealth as represented by the Department of
Veterans' Affairs, the
Repatriation Commission and the Military Rehabilitation and Compensation Commission
(Australian Business Number 23 964 290 824)


and


[Insert name of contractor]
(Insert Australian Business Number)


for the provision of Veterans' Home Care assessment and coordination services to Entitled Persons

Table of Contents
TABLE OF CONTENTS	1
- PURPOSE, PARTIES AND TASK -	3
PART A.	WHAT IS THIS AGREEMENT'S PURPOSE AND PERIOD?	3
A(A)	WHAT IS THE PURPOSE OR OUTCOME EXPECTED FROM THIS AGREEMENT?	3
A(B)	WHAT IS THE AGREED DURATION - NOTING ALSO ANY OPTION(S) TO EXTEND?	3
PART B.	WHO IS THE CONTRACTOR?	4
B(A)	WHAT IS THE CONTRACTOR'S LEGAL IDENTITY?	4
B(B)	WHO REPRESENTS THE CONTRACTOR (IF CONTRACTOR NOT AN INDIVIDUAL)?	4
B(C)	ARE SUPPLIER'S REQUIRED?	5
B(D)	ARE SPECIFIED PERSONNEL REQUIRED?	6
B(E) 	ARE ANY SUBCONTRACTORS TO BE USED (IF SO, FOR WHAT SCOPE)?	6
PART C.	HOW IS DVA REPRESENTED?	7
C(A)	SERVICES ARE REQUIRED BY WHICH ENTITIES?	7
C(B)	WHO REPRESENTS DVA AS A DELEGATE OR FOR LIAISON?	8
PART D.	WHAT IS THE CONTRACTOR REQUIRED TO DO?	8
D(A)	WHAT SERVICES ARE NEEDED - AND WHEN?	8
D(B)	WHAT DELIVERABLES ARE REQUIRED?	9
D(C)	HOW IS PERFORMANCE MONITORED AND COMMUNICATION MAINTAINED?	10
- PRICING -	10
PART E.	HOW ARE PAYMENTS CALCULATED?	10
E(A)	WHAT FEES APPLY?	10
E(B)	WHAT EXPENSES CAN BE REIMBURSED?	11
E(C)	WHAT CLAIMING ISSUES ARISE?	11
E(D)	DO INCENTIVES, DISCOUNTS OR CONDITIONS APPLY?	12
PART F	WHAT ASSISTANCE OR FACILITIES WILL DVA PROVIDE?	12
- STANDARDS -	13
PART G.	HOW IS BETTER PRACTICE ENCOURAGED?	13
G(A)	DO IMPLEMENTATION AND DISENGAGEMENT ISSUES ARISE?	13
G(B)	WHAT QUALITY, SAFETY AND SECURITY STANDARDS APPLY?	13
G(C)	WHAT AGENCY, PUBLIC SECTOR OR TRANSPARENCY ISSUES ARISE?	14
G(D)	HOW WILL THE PARTIES MANAGE/RESOLVE DISPUTES?	14
PART H. 	DO SPECIAL PROPERTY ISSUES ARISE?	15
H(A)	DOES A PARTY REQUIRE PARTICULAR ACCESS TO MATERIAL?	15
H(B)	WHAT INFORMATION HAS BEEN AGREED AS CONFIDENTIAL UNDER THIS AGREEMENT?	15
PART I. 	HOW IS RISK MANAGED?	15
I(A)	WHAT INSURANCE DOES THE CONTRACTOR MAINTAIN?	15
I(B)	WHAT RISKS/ISSUES REQUIRE SPECIFIC MANAGEMENT?	16
PART J. 	WHAT IS THIS AGREEMENT'S FORMAL STATUS?	16
J(A)	IS THIS AGREEMENT A CONTRACT, STANDING OFFER, DEED, NON-BINDING ETC?	16
J(B)	WHAT IS THIS AGREEMENT'S CONTEXT AND HOW ARE AMENDMENTS MANAGED?	17
J(C)	WHAT JURISDICTION GOVERNS INTERPRETATION?	17
THE CLAUSES	18
- KEY PEOPLE AND SERVICES -	18
1.	PURPOSE, SERVICES, TIMING AND STANDARDS	18
2.	PERSONNEL AND SUBCONTRACTORS	19
- FINANCIAL MATTERS -	20
3.	PAYMENT AND ASSISTANCE	20
4.	INCENTIVES AND DISCOUNTS	21
- COMMUNICATION MANAGEMENT -	21
5.	COMMUNICATION AND MANAGEMENT SUPPORT	21
6.	DELIVERING NOTICES	22
7.	MANAGING DISPUTES	22
- TRANSPARENCY AND ACCOUNTABILITY -	23
8.	GOVERNMENTAL FRAMEWORK	23
9.	PRIVACY, CONFIDENTIALITY AND PROTECTIVE SECURITY	24
- OWNERSHIP AND LICENCES -	27
10.	MATERIALS OWNERSHIP, ACCESS AND CUSTODY	27
11.	INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS (IPRS)	28
- RISK MANAGEMENT -	28
12.	NO EMPLOYEE, PARTNER OR AGENT STATUS	28
13.	INDEMNITY AND INSURANCE	29
14.	COMPENSATED REDUCTION OR CANCELLATION	29
15.	DEFAULT AND TERMINATION PROCEDURES	30
- INTERPRETING THIS AGREEMENT -	31
16.	STATUS, INTERPRETATION, PRIORITY AND PRESUMPTIONS	31
17.	VARIATION, NOVATION, ASSIGNMENT AND SEVERANCE	32
17	DEFINITIONS	32
THE SIGNATURES PAGE	36
ATTACHMENTS	37
ATTACHMENT 1 - VHC GUIDELINES	38
ATTACHMENT 2 - LIST OF SERVICE DELIVERY AREA/S AND SITES	39
ATTACHMENT 3 - VETERANS' HOME CARE (VHC) SYSTEM ACCESS REQUEST AND CONFIDENTIALITY DEED	41
ATTACHMENT 4 - SUPPLIER DETAILS	46



- PURPOSE, PARTIES AND TASK -

Part A.	What is this Agreement's purpose and period?

A(a)	What is the purpose or outcome expected from this Agreement?
Relates to clause 1.1 [Cooperation].

The Veterans' Home Care (VHC) Program provides personal care, domestic assistance, home and garden maintenance and respite care to Entitled Persons who are assessed as needing such services to enable them to live independently in the community. 

The VHC Program comprises two separate components:

* "regional assessment and coordination" of Entitled Person's home care needs including management of the care plan developed during the assessment; and
* "delivery of home care services" to Entitled Persons including personal care, domestic assistance, home and garden maintenance and respite care.

This Agreement's purpose is for the Contractor to provide high quality and timely regional assessment and coordination functions under the VHC Program.

The clauses, this schedule and all attachments form this Agreement.  For the purpose of this Agreement, the Veterans' Home Care Guidelines (the Guidelines) is Attachment '1',the List of Service Delivery Areas and Sites is Attachment '2', the Care System Request and Confidentiality Deed  is Attachment '3' and the Supplier Details is Attachment '4'.

A(b)	What is the agreed duration - noting also any option(s) to extend?
Relates to clause 1.1 [Cooperation].

B(a)	What is the contractor's legal identity?
Relates to clause 1.2(a) [Parties].

Full legal name of contractor

Legal entity

Trading or business name

Any relevant licence, registration or provider number

Australian Company Number (ACN) or other entity identifier(s)

Australian Business Number (ABN)

Registered for GST?
Yes/No
Date from which GST registration was effective

Date and place of incorporation (if applicable)

Registered office 
(physical and postal)

Relevant business place (if different)

Telephone (General)

Fax (General)

E-mail (General)


B(b)	Who represents the contractor (if contractor not an individual)?
Relates to clause 6.1 [Format for notices].

Contractor's representative (name)

Position 

Postal and physical address(es)

Business hours telephone

Mobile

Fax

E-mail

 
Legal name of subcontractor

Legal entity

Trading or business name

Australian Company Number  (ACN) or other entity identifier(s)

Australian Business Number (ABN)

Registered office (physical/postal)

C(a)	Services are required by which entities?
Relates to clauses 1.2(b) [Parties], 8.10 [Other government entities] and 18.1 [Definitions: "DVA"].

(1) The services are required by the:

* Repatriation Commission - a Commonwealth body corporate continued in existence under the Veterans' Entitlements Act 1986 (VEA); 
* Military Rehabilitation and Compensation Commission - a Commonwealth body corporate established by the Military Rehabilitation Compensation Act 2004 (MRCA); and
* Commonwealth of Australia as represented by the Department of Veterans' Affairs, which, among other matters, assists the Repatriation Commission, and the Military Rehabilitation and Compensation Commission with the administration of their respective Acts.


C(b)	Who represents DVA as a delegate or for liaison?
Relates to clauses 5.2 [Liaison], 6.1 [Format for notices] and 18.1 [Definitions: "Delegate"].

Delegate (Name)

Position

Address

Postal Address

Telephone (business hours)

Fax

Mobile

E-mail


Liaison Person (Name)

Position

Address

Postal Address

Telephone (business hours)

Fax

Mobile

E-mail


Part D.	What is the contractor required to do?

D(a)	What services are needed - and when?
Relates to clauses 1.3(a) [Contractor's primary tasks].

E(b)	What expenses can be reimbursed?
Relates to clause 3.1(a) [DVA's obligations].

(1) 	No costs or disbursements of the contractor will be reimbursed. 

E(c)	What claiming issues arise?
Relates to clause 3.2 [Claiming processes] and clause 3.3 [Recipient created tax invoice Agreement].
J(c)	What jurisdiction governs interpretation?
Relates to clause 16.2 [Applicable law].

(1)	The applicable law is that of the Australian Capital Territory. 



THE CLAUSES

- KEY PEOPLE AND SERVICES -

1. Purpose, services, timing and standards

1.2	[Parties] The parties to this Agreement are:

(a)	the contractor, as described in Part B(a) [Contractor's legal identity]; and
(b)	DVA, acting through the Department described in Part C(a) [Government parties] and any entity described through clause 8.10 [Other government entities], in particular the Repatriation Commission and the Military Rehabilitation and Compensation Commission.

1.3	[Contractor's primary tasks] (a)	the information, if any, described in Part H(c) of the schedule; and
(b)	information that is agreed between the parties 
* in writing in accordance with clause 9.3(d), and
* after the Agreement date
as constituting confidential information for the purposes of this Agreement.
(c)	[Exceptions to requirement of confidentiality] The provisions of clauses 9.2 and 9.3 do not apply where the confidential information - 
(i)	is required or authorised to be disclosed by law; or
(ii)	is or becomes public knowledge other than by breach of this clause 9; or
(iii)	is disclosed to or by the responsible Minister in response to a request by a House or Committee of the Parliament of the Commonwealth of Australia, or relevant State or Territory Parliament, or the Australian National Audit Office (ANAO); or
(iv)is disclosed by the party to its personnel solely in order to comply with obligations, or to exercise Legal Rights, under this Agreement; or
(v)is shared by DVA within DVA's organisation, or with another agency, where this serves the Commonwealth's legitimate interests.
(d)	[Additional confidential information] The parties may agree in writing after the commencement of this Agreement that certain additional information is to constitute confidential information for the purposes of this Agreement.
(e)	[Period of confidentiality] The obligations under this clause 9 continue, not withstanding the expiry or termination of this Agreement: 
(i)	in relation to an item of information described in Part H(c) of the schedule for the period set out in the schedule in respect of that item; and
(ii) in relation to any information which the parties agree in writing after the commencement of this Agreement is to constitute confidential information for the purposes of this Agreement; or
(iii) until such time as the confidential information becomes public knowledge or is no longer declared confidential by the party claiming the confidentiality.
(f)	[No reduction in privacy obligations] Nothing in this clause 9 derogates from any obligation which either party may have either under the Privacy Act 1988 as amended from time to time, or under this Agreement, in relation to the protection of personal information.

- INTERPRETING THIS AGREEMENT -

16. Status, interpretation, priority and presumptions

16.1	[Entire agreement and status] This Agreement:

(a)	has the intended legal status agreed in Part J(a) [Legal status];
(b)	exists within the context stated in Part J(b) [Context];
(c)	constitutes the parties' entire understanding, superseding any oral or written communications, negotiations or arrangements about the services; and
(d)	creates no expectation to engage the contractor for other services.
Clauses that survive relevant end date(s) of this Agreement are:

(a)	clause 3.3 (Recipient created tax invoice Agreement];
(b)  clauses 3.7 [Deferment] and 3.8 [Discrepancies];
(c)	clause 7 [Managing issues and disputes];
(d)	clause 8 [Governmental framework];
(e)	clause 9 [Privacy and protective security];
(f)	clause 13 [Indemnity and insurance]; and
(g)	this clause 16.

17 Definitions
18.1	In this Agreement, unless the contrary intention appears:

Agreement
Means this document (embracing the clauses, information in the signatures page and the schedule) plus any express attachment. This Agreement does not include the title page, table of contents, document overview, headings or words in square brackets ("[]"): however, these may help clarify any inconsistencies.
Agreement date
Means the date upon which the parties initially form this Agreement (ie, the date of the last relevant signature on the  signatures page)
Anti-Discrimination Laws
Includes the Race Discrimination Act 1975, Sex Discrimination Act 1984, Disability Discrimination Act 1992 and the Equal Opportunity for Women in the Workplace Act 1999.
Attachment
Means a document referred to expressly by a clause or Part as describing a relevant aspect of this Agreement.
Claim
Includes potential claim, suit, demand, action or proceeding from any person.
Commonwealth
Means the Commonwealth of Australia.
Contract Material
Means all Material (including as described in Part D(b) [Deliverable material]):
(a)	brought into existence, for this Agreement's purpose under Part A(a) [Purpose] but excluding any material listed in Part H(a)(1),
(b)	incorporated in, supplied with or to be supplied with the Material described in paragraph (a), and
(c)	copied or derived from the Material in paragraphs (a) or (b).
Contractor
Includes its personnel, and specific references to the contractor' personnel do not limit other references made to the contractor only.
Delegate
Means the individual with the position described in Part C(b) [Commonwealth's representative] or as the Secretary nominates.
Department
Means the Department of Veterans' Affairs (or, if amended, the agency described Part C(a) [Government party].
DVA
Means the Commonwealth (as represented by and acting through the Department, including its personnel) as well as the Repatriation Commission and its personnel and the Military Rehabilitation and Compensation Commission and its Personnel, named in this Agreement under clause 8.10 [Other government entities]. Specific references to DVA's personnel do not limit other references made to DVA only.
DVA Material
Means Material that the Commonwealth, including DVA, provides under this Agreement or that the contractor obtains from the Commonwealth, or Material copied or derived from the Material provided or obtained.
End date
Means the date of a partial or full discharge of this Agreement, whether by cancellation, termination, frustration, Law or through the expiration of a relevant requirement for the Services.
Entitled Person
Means veterans and war widows/widowers and certain dependants who hold Gold or White Repatriation Health Cards.
GST
Means the Goods and Services Tax under A New Tax System (Goods and Services Tax) Act 1999.
Illegal Worker

Means a person who 
(a) has unlawfully entered and remains in Australia, 
(b) has lawfully entered Australia but remains in Australia after his/her visa has expired or 
(c) is working in breach of his/her visa conditions.
Individual
Means a natural person (ie, not a corporation or a government body).
Intellectual Property Rights
Includes, regarding in any country in the world and including the ability to register these rights (where applicable):
(a)	patents and plant varieties, 
(b)	trade marks (including service marks), design rights, business names and official emblems and crests,
(c)	copyright (including neighbouring rights), circuit layouts, and confidential information (including trade secrets and know how), and 
(d)	other rights applicable to or resulting from industrial, scientific, literary or artistic intellectual activity. 
Law
Includes any relevant:
(a)	Legislation, whether primary or delegated, of the Commonwealth or a, State, Territory or local government, 
(b)	Judicial ruling (including under the common law or the rules of equity), or
(c)	Determination made by an agency under a Commonwealth, State, Territory or local law.
Legal rights
Means any rights, powers, remedies or benefits available at Law or under this Agreement.
Liaison person
Means the individual with the position described in Part C(b) [Commonwealth's representative] or as the Delegate nominates.
Loss
Includes any damage, liability, loss, injury or death, including economic loss and legal costs or expenses arising on a solicitor/own client basis.
Material
Means any object (including any goods, equipment, and deliverables), record (including as defined under the Archives Act 1983), document, software, information, or subject matter in which Intellectual Property Rights subsist.
Military Rehabilitation and Compensation Commission
Means the body corporate established by the Military Rehabilitation Compensation Act 2004 (MRCA) or any other government agency that carries out functions equivalent to the Military Rehabilitation and Compensation Commission.
Notice
Means a formal communication between the parties made in writing.
Part
Means a part of the schedule that describes a relevant aspect of this Agreement, identifiable by its heading with letter(s) and referred to expressly in a clause.
Party
Means, as applicable, DVA, the contractor and their respective personnel.
Person
Includes an individual, a body corporate (eg, an incorporated association, a statutory authority or a company, including a financial or trading corporation), a body politic (eg, a government), an office, commission, authority, committee, tribunal, board, institute, trust, partnership or any other organisation or unincorporated association
Personnel
Includes any party's officer, partner, employee, agent, volunteer, bailee, contractor, subcontractor, executor, administrator, substitute, successor, licensee or assignee but - when applied to one party - does not include the other party or that other party's Personnel.
Potential
Includes potential, apparent or actual situations.
Pre-existing Material
Any Material in existence at the Agreement date.
Record
Includes information stored or recorded by means of a computer.
Repatriation Commission
Means the body corporate continued in existence under the Veterans' Entitlements Act 1986 or any other government agency that carries out functions equivalent to the Repatriation Commission.
Secretary
Means the individual performing the duties of Secretary of the Department or any individual the Secretary designates in writing in relation to this Agreement.
Security Classified Information
Means information that has a security classification as defined from time to time by DVA, having regard to advice from the Commonwealth Protective Security Coordination Centre.  Generally such information will be that designated as 'Commercial-In-Confidence'.
Services
Means services (including deliverables), Material and Intellectual Property Rights required for the contractor to fulfil this Agreement, including those described in clause 1 [Services] and Part D(a) [Services]. 
Signature
Includes the application of seal, on the signatures page or for amendments.
Signatures Page
Means the pages executed (by signatures or affixing a seal as appropriate) by each party to indicate intention to create legal relations under this Agreement or to establish such other status as defined through clause 16.1 [Agreement status].
Writing/written
Includes any reasonable mode of representing or reproducing words, figures, drawings or symbols in a visible form


THE SIGNATURES PAGE

THIS AGREEMENT IS EXECUTED AS A DEED

Signed, sealed and delivered for and on behalf of: [insert name of contractor]


by: [insert name and position of contractor representative]




Signature and date:                                                                     /      /


Witnessed by: [insert name]




Signature and date:                                                            /      /


Signed, sealed and delivered for and on behalf of the Commonwealth of Australia's Department of Veterans' Affairs, the Repatriation Commission the Military Rehabilitation and Compensation Commission


by: [insert name and position of DVA representative]




Signature and date:                                                                   /      /


Witnessed by: [insert name]




Signature and date:                                                           /      /










ATTACHMENTS

There are four Attachments to this Agreement:


Attachment 1 - VHC Guidelines;
Attachment 2 - List Of Service Delivery Area/S And Sites;
Attachment 3 - Veterans' Home Care (VHC) System Access Request and Confidentiality Deed; and
Attachment 4 - Supplier Details.


Attachment 1 - VHC Guidelines




This information is available for download from the DVA website

www.dva.gov.au/business/tenders/tender.htm

or

www.dva.gov.au/health/homecare/guidelines/index.htm


ATTACHMENT '2'
Attachment 2 - List Of Service Delivery Area/S And Sites

Service delivery area
Site
ABN
Site address
Contact person
Position
Telephone
E-mail
Software Licence Agreement
This agreement is made the	1st day of July 2004
Between:	LG SYSTEM INCORPORATED of 15 Mount Street, Melrose
("the Licensor")
And:	DISTRICT COUNCIL OF MOUNT REMARKABLE
("the Licensee")
for the licensing of computer software.
Whereas:
A. The Licensor is an association incorporated in South Australia under the provisions of the Associations Incorporation Act 1985;
B. The Licensee is a member of the Licensor;
C. The objects of the Licensor under its Rules of Incorporation include to own, control, develop and support software programs designed and/or adapted specifically for use in local government and other public sector environments;
D. The Licensor has commenced the development of certain software (defined in this Agreement as the Licensed Software) for use by Members;
E. The Licensor desires to license the Licensed Software to Members to facilitate research and development of the Licensed Software whether alone or in conjunction with other computer software.
F. The Licensor has offered to grant the Licensee a non-transferable and non-exclusive Licence to use the Licensed Software, subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement;
G. The Licensee has agreed to accept the licence subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
It is hereby agreed as follows.
1. DEFINITIONS
1.1 In this Agreement, unless the contrary intention appears:
"Additional Charge" means a charge in accordance with the Licensor's standard rates in effect from time to time;
"Agreement" means this Agreement for the licensing, installation and development of the Licensed Software and other software;
"Category 1 User" means a member who pays the Licence Fee specified at Schedule 2(A);
"Category 2 User" means a member who pays the Licence Fee specified at Schedule 2(B);
"Commencement Date" means the date so specified in Schedule 1;
"Confidential Information" means the confidential information of a Party which relates to the subject matter of this Agreement and includes Source Code and information relating to:
(a) the design, specification and content of the Licensed Software;
(b) the personnel, policies or business strategies of the Licensor;
(c) the terms upon which the Licensed Software is being supplied and installed pursuant to this Agreement;
"Designated Equipment" means the computer equipment, designated in Schedule 1, upon which the Licensed Software may be used;
"Documentation" means operating manuals and other printed materials referred to in Schedule 1 including Source Code, users' manuals, programming manuals, modification manuals, flow charts, drawings and software listings which are designed to assist or supplement the understanding or application of the Licensed Software;
"Force Majeure" means a circumstance beyond the reasonable control of the Parties which results in a Party being unable to observe or perform on time an obligation under this Agreement.  Such circumstances shall include but shall not be limited to:
(a) acts of God, lightning strikes, earthquakes, floods, storms, explosions, fires and any natural disaster;
(b) acts of war, acts of public enemies, terrorism, riots, civil commotion, malicious damage, sabotage and revolution; and
(c) strikes;
"Initial Term" means the period so specified in Schedule 1;
"Intellectual Property Rights" means copyright, trade mark, design, patent, semiconductor or circuit layout rights;
"Licence" means the licence and each licence and any agreement for licence, granted by the Licensor to the Licensee pursuant to this Agreement in respect of the Licensed Software or any part thereof;
"Licence Fee" means the fee specified in Schedule 2, payable by the Licensee to the Licensor, for the use of the Licensed Software;
"Licensed Software" means the software designated in Schedule 1 consisting of a set of instructions or statements in machine readable medium and any enhancement, alteration, modification, update or new release of the that software or part thereof including modifications or alterations made by the Licensee in which the Licensor acquires copyright pursuant to the provisions of Clause 9; 
"Member" means a member of L G System Incorporated;
"Open Source Software" means the software designated in Schedule 1 consisting of a set of instructions or statements in machine readable medium and any enhancement modification, update or new release of that software or part thereof
"Party" means either the Licensor or the Licensee as the context dictates;
"Restraint Period" means the period, specified in Schedule 1, during which a Party must refrain from soliciting for employment any person who is employed or contracted by the other Party;
"Schedule" means a schedule to this Agreement;
"Site" means the location designated in Schedule 1 for delivery and installation of the Licensed Software;
"Source Code" means the source code of the Licensed Software;
"Source Code Control System" means the system used by the Licensor for the control of source code specified in Schedule 1 or such other system as the Licensor shall determine to use from time to time;
"System" means the computer system comprising the Licensed Software, the Open Source Software and other software as determined by the Licensor from time to time;
"User Group" means the user group established by the Licensor under its Rules of Incorporation;
"Warranty Period" is the period so specified in Schedule 1.
2. INTERPRETATION
2.1 In this Agreement, unless the contrary intention appears:
(a) the clause headings are for ease of reference only and shall not be relevant to interpretation;
(b) a reference to a clause number is a reference to its subclauses;
(c) words in the singular number include the plural and vice versa;
(d) words importing a gender include any other gender;
(e) a reference to a person includes bodies corporate and unincorporated associations and partnerships;
(f) a reference to a clause is a reference to a clause or subclause of this Agreement;
(g) a reference to a subclause is a reference to a subclause of the clause in which that reference is made;
(h) where a word or phrase is given a particular meaning, other parts of speech and grammatical forms of that word or phrase have corresponding meanings;
(i) a reference to a Schedule includes a reference to any part of that Schedule which is incorporated by reference;
(j) the recitals to this Agreement do not form part of the Agreement;
(k) monetary references are reference to Australian currency.
2.2 No provision of this Agreement will be interpreted as attempting to exclude or limit, or having the effect of excluding or limiting, the operation of subsection 47B(3) or section 47C, 47D, 47E or 47F, of the Copyright Act 1968 (Cth).  Any provision which is inconsistent with any such subsection or section will be read down or otherwise deemed to be varied to the extent necessary to preserve the operation of such subsection, section or sections.
3. DELIVERY AND INSTALLATION
THE COMMON SEAL of LG SYSTEM INCORPORATED was hereunto affixed in accordance with its Rules of Association in the presence of:

Chairperson/Vice-Chairperson

Committee Member
)
)
)
)

THE COMMON SEAL of  DISTRICT COUNCIL OF MOUNT REMARKABLE
 was affixed in accordance with a resolution in the presence of:




)
)
)
)

SCHEDULES
Schedule 1 - Contract Details
Commencement Date  1st July 2004
Documentation -	Two(2) Copies of Operational Manuals bearing the LGS Enterprise (LGE)logo as described in Licensed Software in Schedule 1
Governing Law - Law of the State of South Australia
Initial Term - a period of 12 months commencing on the Commencement Date
Licensed Software -	Licensed Software means:-
(1) in the case of Category 1 Users, the software known as LGS Enterprise (LGE) comprising the following modules:
Rates, Property, Counter, GIS, Electoral
System Supervision, security, access controls
Risk Management,
OHS, Training
Animals
General Ledger, Financial,
Forecasting/Review, BAS, FCA, Costing, Banks
Records Management / Strategic Planning
Debtors, Creditors, eProcurement, Direct Costing
Development Controls, EDALA, Health
Payroll, Personnel
Cemeteries, Signs, Trees
Fleet Plant, Asset Management
Pavement Management
(2) in the case of Category 2 Users,  such of the above modules as is listed below (insert the description of the particular module from those listed above which is to be licensed):-.............................................................;
Notices	- Licensor - 15 Mount Street, Melrose  SA  5483
	- Licensee - Person/Entity named in Execution clause 34.
Open Source Software Restraint Period - 12 months from the Commencement Date
Site - the principal office of the Licensee and the Licensee's branch offices
Source Code Control System - Microsoft.NET Framework Source Code Control System
Warranty Period - a period of three months from the Commencement Date (or three months from the date of release of that part of the Licensed Software which fails to operate in conformity with the Documentation)

Schedule 2 - Licence Fee (strike out whichever is not applicable):-
		(A)	In the case of a Category 1 User:-
An initial fee of $40,000.00 payable upon the execution of this Agreement plus a fee of $500.00 payable annually during the term of this Agreement or any renewal thereof, the first of such payments to be made upon the expiration of the Initial Term. 
	(B)	In the case of a Category 2 User:-
$500.00 payable upon the execution of this Agreement.


E:\Agreements\normans\0607857

E:\Agreements\normans\0607857
NORTHERN TERRITORY OF AUSTRALIA

LICENCE FOR USE OF DIGITAL DATA AND INFORMATION

THIS AGREEMENT is made the xxx day of xxx, 2008

BETWEEN:

the NORTHERN TERRITORY OF AUSTRALIA care of the Department of Natural Resources, Environment and the Arts, GPO Box 30, Palmerston, in the Northern Territory of Australia, ABN 84 085 734 992 (the "Licensor")

AND:   

xxxxx the party described in Item 1 of Schedule A, of the address specified in Item 2 of Schedule A (the "Licensee").

WHEREAS

A.	The Licensor is the owner of the digital data described in Item 3 of Schedule A (the "data"); and
B.	The Licensee wishes to use the data for the purposes set out in Item 4 of Schedule A;
C.	The Licensor agrees that the Licensee can use the data, subject to the terms and conditions set out in this Agreement


THE PARTIES AGREE as follows:

1.	LICENCE
4.1	For the purposes of this Clause unless the context otherwise requires:-
(a)	"GST" means any tax imposed on Supply by or through the New Tax System (Goods and Services Tax) Act 1999 ("the Act") and any related Tax Imposition Act and "New Tax System Changes" has the meaning it bears in the New Tax System (Trade Practices Amendment) Act 1999 ("the TPA").  Where any other term is used in this clause which is defined in the Act or the TPA it shall have the meaning which it bears in the Act, or (if the term is not defined in the Act) then the meaning which it bears in the TPA;
(b)	"GST Rate" means the percentage amount of GST payable determined under section 9-70 of the Act as amended from time to time; and
(c)	"Input Tax Credit", "Recipient", "Supplier" and "Supply" have the meaning they bear in the Act.

8. PRIVACY
8.1	In this clause:
Act means the Information Act (NT)
Privacy Laws means:
(a)	The Act; and
(b)	The Information Privacy Principles set out in the Act or any 'code of practice' approved under the Act that applies to any of the parties to this agreement.
Personal Information means all information about a person that is "personal information" as defined in the Act which is collected and/or handled by any of the parties in connection with this agreement.
8.2	The Licensee agrees to deal with all Personal Information in a manner which is consistent with the Privacy Laws and any other relevant privacy legislation, as if the Licensee were a public sector organisation.
8.3	The Licensee is to use Personal Information only for the purposes of fulfilling its obligations under this agreement.
8.4	The Licensee is not to disclose Personal Information without the written authority of the Licensor. 
8.5	The Licensee is to immediately notify the Licensor where it becomes aware that a disclosure of personal information may be required by law.
8.6	The Licensee is to ensure that any employees, agents or other person who may have access to Personal Information held by the Licensee, are aware of and undertake to not access, use, disclose or retain Personal Information except in performing their duties of employment.
8.7	The Licensee is to take all reasonable measures to ensure that Personal Information is protected from misuse and loss and from unauthorised access, modification, disclosure or other misuse and that only personnel necessary to fulfil the obligations under this agreement have access to the Personal Information.
8.8	The Licensee acknowledges that individuals have the right to request access to, or correction of, the Personal Information held about them.
8.9	The Licensee must not transfer Personal Information outside the Northern Territory without the prior approval of the Licensor.
8.10	The Licensee, in respect to Personal Information, is to immediately notify the Licensor where the Licensee becomes aware of a breach of this clause or the Privacy Laws.

This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement between the parties relating to the subject matter hereof, and supersedes any previous agreements or understandings.



EXECUTED by the parties as an Agreement.

SIGNED by
	)
.......................................... Date	)	
Senior Manager Spatial Data Mapping)		
      
      for and on behalf of the	)
NORTHERN TERRITORY OF AUSTRALIA	)
pursuant to a delegation under the	)
Contracts Act in the presence of:	)
	)
.......................................... Date	)			
Witness	)


(Where the Licensee is an Individual)

SIGNED by
	)		Delete Licensee Details as per not-required
.......................................... Date	)			(Individual  Business  Company)
	)		
in the presence of:	)
	)
.......................................... Date	)
Witness	)



OR:
(Where the licensee is a Business)

SIGNED by
	)
.......................................... Date	)
	)
trading as	)
	)
in the presence of:	)
	)
.......................................... Date	)
Witness	)



OR:
(Where the licensee is a Company)

The COMMON SEAL of	)
..........................................	)
	)
(A.C.N. --- --- --- )	)
	)
was hereunto affixed in accordance with	)
its Constitution in the presence of:	)
	)
.......................................... Date	)
Director	)
	)
.......................................... Date	)
Director/Secretary	)


SCHEDULE A

ITEM 1	LICENSEE 	xxx
	Trading as 	xxx
	ABN 	xxx
	On behalf of	xxx
	


ITEM 2	  ADDRESS OF LICENSEE 	xxx
	xxx
xxx


ITEM 3	LICENSOR'S DIGITAL DATA		   



ITEM 4	LICENSEE'S USE OF DATA 

ITEM 5	COMMENCEMENT DATE 	Not Applicable

ITEM 6	EXPIRY DATE 	Not Applicable

ITEM 7	FEES 	$            Not Applicable
$           
$            (Including GST)

ITEM 8	PAYMENT STRUCTURE 	$            Not Applicable


ITEM 9	ADDRESS FOR SERVICE OF NOTICE
Licensor:	Licensee:

Senior Manager	Attention		name 
Spatial Data Mapping Branch			title
Department of Natural Resources, 				company
Environment and the Arts				address
PO Box 30	Ph			(08) xxx
Palmerston NT  0831	Mob			xxx
FAX:  (08) 8999 4445	ABN 		xxx
ABN 84 085 734 992	Email		xxx


ITEM 10	SPECIAL CONDITIONS	delete if not required
 
This Contract records the entire agreement between the Parties in relation to its subject matter.
A variation of this Contract is binding only if agreed in writing and signed by the Parties.
Any reading down or severance of a particular provision does not affect the other provisions of this Contract.
This Contract is to be construed in accordance with the laws of the Australian Capital Territory subject to the relevant Commonwealth, State and Territory laws relating to Privacy and Criminal History Information.
The terms of this Contract apply on and from the Commencement Date.

GST;

input tax credit;

supply;

Taxable supply; and

tax invoice.
12. Confidential Information
12.1. Interpretation of clause
12.1.1. In this clause 12:
Third Party Interest
means any legal or equitable right, interest, power or remedy in favour of any person other than the Accredited Agency or CrimTrac in connection with the Contract, including, without limitation, any right of possession, receivership, control or power of sale, and any mortgage, charge, security or other interest.
12.2. Confidential Information not to be disclosed


SIGNED for and on behalf of the Commonwealth of Australia by the CrimTrac Agency by:

)
)
)

Ben McDevitt, Chief Executive Officer

Signature
In the presence of:



Name of witness

Signature of witness
SIGNED for and on behalf of Name of Accredited Agency by:

)
)
)

Name and position

Signature
In the presence of:



Name of witness

Signature of witness
and by





Name of company officer and position


Signature
In the presence of



Name of witness

Signature of witness
			SCHEDULE
A. Procedures for Requesting a NCHRC
Authorised Officers
CRIMTRAC AGENCY
NAME OF ACCREDITED AGENCY


Manager Criminal History 
Title
496 Northbourne Avenue
Address
DICKSON ACT 2602



Ph:	(02) 6268 7729
Ph:   phone number
Fax:	(02) 6268 7989
Fax:  fax number	
F.1. Without limiting the operation of any other provision of this Contract, the Authorised Officer shall also have responsibility for:
a. receiving notices in relation to this Contract
b. receiving reports of breaches of this Contract
c. receiving reports concerning dispute resolution in the first instance
d. protection of Criminal History Information
e. contact for consultation on the disclosure of information under subpoena, freedom of information or other legal processes
f. generally acting as first contact point for all communication between the Parties.
[NB - CrimTrac's strong preference will be to agree to one Authorised Officer only being identified under the Contract.]
G. Fees
G.1. CrimTrac will provide a tax invoice to the Accredited Agency on a monthly basis for all NCHRC Services undertaken during that month.  The charge for each NCHRC Service shall be calculated according to the type of NCHRC and is inclusive of any follow up processing conducted by CrimTrac or individual Police Service for provision of hard copy reports in respect of the records that match with the Applicant.
G.2. CrimTrac will include the following information in the invoice:
- number of Applicants checked;
- type of NCHRC; and
- applicable fees.
G.3. Invoices will be addressed to:

Name of Accredited Agency
Contact Title / Dept.
Postal address of Accredited Agency
Ph:				Fax:

H. Confidential Information 
(see clause 12)
CrimTrac's Confidential Information
(a)	Contract Provisions/Schedules/Attachments
Item
Period of Confidentiality
Terms and conditions of the Contract
Duration of contract 
Contact details of CrimTrac personnel
Duration of contract 
(b)	Contract-related material
Item
Period of Confidentiality
Criminal History Information
Until disposed of as specified at Item E of the Schedule


The Accredited Agency's Confidential Information
(a)	Contract Provisions/Schedules/Attachments
Item
Period of Confidentiality
insert relevant items



(b)	Contract-related material
Item
Period of Confidentiality
insert relevant items



I. Insurance
(see clause 13.2)

The Accredited Agency must effect and maintain general liability / public liability insurance that covers the Accredited Agency's liability to compensate third parties for personal injury and/or property damage arising from the insured business activities, including coverage for, but not limited to: 
a. Personal injury including mental anguish or mental injury;
b. Defamation, libel and slander;
c. Sexual or physical abuse, molestation or harassment, or attempt thereat;
d. Breach of privacy
to a value of $20 million each and every occurrence during the policy period.

and/or

The Accredited Agency must effect and maintain professional indemnity insurance that covers the Accredited Agency's civil liability arising from a claim against the Accredited Agency with respect to the conduct of their professional business including but not limited to background and criminal history record checking services, including coverage for, but not limited to: 
a. Personal injury including mental anguish or mental injury;
b. Defamation, libel and slander;
c. Breach of privacy
to a value of $10 million each and every claim and $20 million in the aggregate during the policy period.
J. CrimTrac's Address for Notices
(see clause 13.8.1.a)

Physical address
496 Northbourne Avenue
DICKSON  ACT  2602
Postal address
GPO Box 1573
CANBERRA  CITY  ACT 2601
Facsimile
(02) 6268 7989
K. Accredited Agency's Address for Notices
(see clause 13.8.1.b)

Physical address
Insert
Postal address
Insert
Email
insert
Facsimile
Insert

          
          Annexure 1
1. Use of Criminal History Information Received from CrimTrac
DEED OF CONFIDENTIALITY
I, ____________________________ undertake to the CrimTrac Agency (CrimTrac) that:
1.	Unless:
(a) required by the law to do so; or

(b) permitted in accordance with the terms of the Contract dated.........................between CrimTrac and Name of Accredited Agency concerning the release of Criminal History Information ("the Contract") to do so -
	I will not:
(c) access, use, disclose to any person (including any corporation or other entity) or retain criminal history information received from CrimTrac; 
	or
(d) allow any other person to access, use, disclose to any person (including me and any corporation or other entity) or retain Criminal History Information received from CrimTrac.
2.	I understand that:
(a) this Deed continues to have effect after I cease my employment with Name of Accredited Agency.
3.	Applicable Law
This Deed will be governed in accordance with the law in [specify jurisdiction].
Signature:	___________________________   Date: __________________

Print name:	___________________________________________________
and position	

Witness:	___________________________   Date: __________________
(Senior Officer)

Print name:	___________________________________________________
and position
	



	

	i





	3

	
The word person means and includes any natural person, company, firm or any other legal entity whether acting as a trustee or not.
References to any statute or statutory provision include that statute or statutory provision as amended, extended, consolidated or replaced by subsequent legislation and any orders, regulations, instruments or other subordinate legislation made under the relevant statute and further includes any equivalent statute in any other Australian state or territory where that state or territory has jurisdiction over this Agreement pursuant to the operation of Clause 13.



































































